[[page 1]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Scoping 
Report  
NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 
2)- 6 Johnston Crescent, Horsley 
Park  
12 March 2026 
Prepared for: NEXTDC  
[[page 2]]
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    2 
 
 
Urbis staff responsible for this report were: 
Director Jennifer Cooper 
Associate Director Christopher Croucamp 
Consultant Patrick Jones 
Report Number Final 
 
 
  
Acknowledgment of Country 
Urbis acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands we operate on. 
We recognise that First Nations sovereignty was never ceded and respect First Nations peoples continuing 
connection to these lands, waterways and ecosystems for over 60,000 years. 
We pay our respects to First Nations Elders, past and present. 
 
Urbis is committed to incorporating our respect for First Nations cultures, peoples and storytelling in our work 
across the Country. We are proud to have partnered with Darug Nation artist, Hayley Pigram, and to profile her 
artwork - Sacred River Dreaming. 
 
 
The river is the symbol of the Dreaming 
and the journey of life. The circles and 
lines represent people meeting and 
connections across time and space. When 
we are working in different places, we can 
still be connected and work towards the 
same goal. 
All information supplied to Urbis in order to conduct this research has been treated in the strictest confidence.  
It shall only be used in this context and shall not be made available to third parties without client authorisation.  
Confidential information has been stored securely and data provided by respondents, as well as their identity, has been 
treated in the strictest confidence and all assurance given to respondents have been and shall be fulfilled. 
 
 
© Urbis Ltd 
50 105 256 228 
 
All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced without prior permission. 
You must read the important disclaimer appearing within the body of this report. 
 
urbis.com.au 

[[page 3]]
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    3 
 
 
Contents 
1 Introduction 5 
1.1 Applicant Details 5 
1.2 Project Overview 6 
2 Project Background 9 
2.1 Site and Consent History 9 
2.2 Project Rationale 12 
3 Strategic Context 13 
3.1 Key Features 13 
3.2 Project Justification 18 
3.3 Cumulative Impacts with Future Projects 21 
4 Project 24 
4.1 Project Overview 24 
4.2 Detailed Project Description 28 
4.3 Feasible Alternatives 31 
5 Statutory Context 33 
5.1 Statutory Requirements 33 
5.2 Pre-Conditions to Granting Consent 35 
5.3 Mandatory Considerations 36 
6 Community Engagement 40 
6.1 Engagement Carried Out 40 
6.2 Future Engagement to be Carried out by the 
Applicant 41 
7 Proposed Assessment of Impacts 43 
7.1 Matters Requiring Further Assessment in the 
EIS 43 
7.2 Matters Requiring No Further Assessment in 
the EIS 55 
8 Conclusion 56 
 
Figures 
Figure 1 Aerial Photo (Urbis, 2026) ...................................... 7 
Figure 2 Regional Context (Urbis, 2026) ......................... 8 
Figure 3 Approved Staging Plan (CSR Limited) ........ 10 
Figure 4 Contamination Cell Location (ERM, 2024) 11 
Figure 5 Local Context (Urbis, 2026) ............................... 13 
Figure 6 Site Photos .................................................................... 14 
Figure 7 Site Overlays (Urbis, 2026) .................................. 17 
Figure 8 SSDA Map (Urbis, 2026) ...................................... 23 
Figure 9 Ground Floor Plan (HDR, 2026) ....................... 26 
Figure 10 Typical Level 1 – 2 Floor Plan........................... 26 
Figure 11 Project Massing (Building AB and Building 
CD approved by SSD-63741210) (HDR, 2026) ........... 27 
Figure 12 Proposed Sections (HDR, 2026) .................... 27 
Figure 13 Developable Area (HDR, 2026) ..................... 28 
Figure 14 Site Plan (HDR, 2026) ........................................... 29 
Figure 15 Site Circulation (HDR, 2026) ........................... 30 
Figure 16 Proposed viewpoint locations (Urbis, 
2026) ................................................................................................... 44 
Figure 17 Proposed Noise Logger Locations 
(Aurecon, 2026) ........................................................................... 46 
Figure 18 Industrial Water Connection from coNEXA 
recycled water storage (NEXTDC, 2026) ...................... 51 
Figure 19 Power connection route from TransGrid 
Sydney West substation to Lot 306 (NEXTDC, 2026)
 ................................................................................................................. 51 
Figure 20 Lot 306 Points of Entry (NEXTDC, 2026) .. 52 
Figure 21 Lot 305 Points of Entry (NEXTDC, 2026) .... 52 
 
Pictures 
Picture 1 Looking south-east ................................................ 14 
Picture 2 Southern interface of the site ......................... 14 
Picture 3 Looking east towards the C2 zoned land14 
Picture 4 Access to site from Johston Crescent ..... 14 
Picture 5 Land Zoning Map ..................................................... 17 
Picture 6 Riparian lands and watercourses................ 17 
Picture 7 Bushfire Prone Land Map .................................... 17 
Picture 8 Biodiversity Values Map ..................................... 17 
Picture 9 OLS Map ......................................................................... 17 
Picture 10 ANEF Map .................................................................... 17 
 
[[page 4]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    4 
 
 
Tables 
Table 1 Applicant Details .......................................................... 5 
Table 2 Site and Project Overview ...................................... 6 
Table 3 Previous Development Consents ..................... 9 
Table 4 Project Rationale ........................................................ 12 
Table 5 Key Features of Site and Locality ..................... 14 
Table 6 Strategic Context ....................................................... 18 
Table 7 Nearby Projects ........................................................... 21 
Table 8 Project Overview ....................................................... 24 
Table 9 Analysis of Feasible Alternatives ..................... 31 
Table 10 Identification of Statutory Requirements 
for the Project ................................................................................33  
Table 11 Pre-Conditions .......................................................... 35 
Table 12 Mandatory Considerations .............................. 36 
Table 13 Agency and Stakeholder Engagement ... 40 
Table 14 Matters requiring assessment in the EIS . 43 
 
[[page 5]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Introduction 5 
 
 
1 Introduction 
This Scoping Report has been prepared on behalf of NEXTDC Ltd (the Applicant) to facilitate the preparation 
of project-specific Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements (SEARs) for a proposed data centre 
at 6 Johnston Crescent, Horsley Park (the site). The SEARS will guide the preparation of an Environmental 
Impact Statement (EIS) that will accompany a State Significant Development Application (SSDA) for 
assessment by the Department of Planning, Housing and Infrastructure (DPHI). 
The proposal relates to a data centre that has a total power consumption exceeding 15 megawatts and is 
therefore classified as State Significant Development (SSD) pursuant to Section 25 of Schedule 1 of State 
Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021 (Planning Systems SEPP).  
Following preliminary consultation with the DPHI, it was determined that the project requires a Scoping Report 
to support the issue of the project-specific SEARs.  
The purpose of this report is to: 
▪ Describe the project in simple terms,  
▪ Analyse the feasible alternatives considered and identify the alternatives that will be investigated 
further in the EIS,  
▪ Indicate early community views on the project and identify what engagement will be carried out during 
the preparation of the EIS, and  
▪ Identify the key matters requiring further assessment in the EIS and the proposed approach to 
assessing each of these matters.  
This Scoping Report is supported by the following documents:  
▪ Appendix A: Concept Architectural Design Report  
▪ Appendix B: Preliminary Viewpoint Locations   
▪ Appendix C: Infrastructure Servicing Strategy  
▪ Appendix D: Recycled Water Memo  
▪ Appendix E: Water Technical Memorandum  
▪ Appendix F: Near Neighbour Letter  
▪ Appendix G: ACHAR Methodology and Background Information  
▪ Appendix H: BDAR Waiver Request  
1.1 Applicant Details 
The applicant details for the proposed development are listed in the following table. 
Table 1 Applicant Details  
Proponent Proponent name 
Full name(s)  NEXTDC Limited c/o Urbis Ltd  
Postal Address 8/123 Pitt Street, Sydney NSW 2000 
ABN 35 143 582 521  
Nominated Contact Christopher Croucamp – Associate Director (Urbis)  
 
  
[[page 6]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Introduction 6 
 
 
1.2 Project Overview 
Table 2 Site and Project Overview  
Matter Description 
The Site 
Country Dharug Country 
Street Address 6 Johnston Crescent, Horsley Park 
Legal Description Lot 306 in DP1275011 
Site Area The site has a total area of 21.33 hectares.  
Developable Area The developable area of the site has an approximate area of 4.205 
hectares. 
LGA  Fairfield City Council 
Existing development The developable area is confined to the northern portion of the lot on the 
eastern side of Johnston Crescent (refer Figure 1). This area has been 
cleared of vegetation and bulk earthworks approved under DA-893-201 
have been completed to establish the developable area. 
Land zoned C2 Environmental Conservation is located along the south-
eastern portion of the main lot and will be retained and managed as a 
conservation area. 
A separate land parcel registered under the same Lot and Deposited Plan 
number is situated approximately 300 metres to the south-west of the 
main site. This land does not form part of the development site (also refer 
Figure 1). 
The Project 
Project Name NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)  
Project Objectives  ▪ Improve the accessibility and supply of critical digital storage 
infrastructure in Horsley Park, which is an emerging employment 
precinct, 
▪ Encourage employment -generating opportunities and support long 
term economic sustainability, consistent with the site’s industrial 
zoning and the strategic importance of industrial land within the 
Western Sydney Employment Area ( WSEA), 
▪ Support the continued growth of the WSEA as a major hub of 
employment activity through the provision of key digital 
infrastructure,  
▪ Attract knowledge -based industries and businesses, including in the 
health and education sectors, by locating high -quality digital 
infrastructure in proximity to key institutions,  
▪ Avoid unacceptable environmental and amenity impacts and 
provide ongoing compliance with operational legislative 
requirements,  
▪ Retain key existing environmental features of the site and coordinate 
the design with surrounding approvals, and  
[[page 7]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Introduction 7 
 
 
Matter Description 
▪ Construct and operate the data centre in a sensitive and responsible 
manner with regard  to the health and safety of staff and the 
environment.  
Development Stages ▪ Stage 1: Site Establishment  
▪ Stage 2: Construction, and  
▪ Stage 3: Operation  
A map of the site in its regional setting is provided at Figure 2.  
Figure 1 Aerial Photo (Urbis, 2026)  
 
  

[[page 8]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Introduction 8 
 
 
Figure 2 Regional Context (Urbis, 2026)  
 
 
 
 
  

[[page 9]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project Background 9 
 
 
2 Project Background 
2.1 Site and Consent History 
The relevant development consents (and approved/pending modifications) are summarised in Table 3. 
Table 3 Previous Development Consents  
DA Number Description Date of consent 
DA893-2013 Torrens Title subdivision to create 14 lots and one residue 
lot across three stages. The approval facilitated the 
staged subdivision of the former 327–335 Burley Road, 
Horsley Park being Lot 1 DP 106143 for CSR Limited. The 
subdivision created multiple industrial lots and one lot for 
environmental conservation land. 
16 October 2015 
MA893.4-2013 Minor amendments to features of the subdivision across 
the three stages. This modification incorporated the C2 
zoned land into Lot 306 instead of Lot 203. 
18 June 2018 
MA893.6-2013 Modification application to further stage approved Stage 
2. 
13 November 2019 
DA21.1-2020 Remediation of land in Stage 2 and 3 of approved 
subdivision (DA 893-2013) by placing contaminated 
material from the former quarrying site in a containment 
cell located on approved Lot 306. 
23 November 2020 
MA893.8-2013 Stage 3 roadworks, stormwater drainage, and bulk 
earthworks.  
15 September 2021 
MA893.9-2013 Further staging of Stage 3 into Sub-Stages 3A, 3B and 3C.  
The proposed SSDA relates to the land identified as Stage 
3C, as shown in Figure 3.  
12 May 2021 
MA893.10-2013 Construction of single road and associated drainage for 
subdivision of four individual lots.  
28 April 2021 
The abovementioned development consents have facilitated the site establishment works required to 
support the proposed data centre. The site benefits from level building pads, upgraded stormwater and 
sewer infrastructure, new road connections and utilities infrastructure in close proximity. 
A containment cell is located beneath the development site, with its underground extent illustrated in Figure 
4. The containment cell was approved under DA21.1-2020 in November 2020 to manage asbestos containing 
soils. The cell extends between a maximum depth of RL 73.80m AHD and a maximum height of RL 83.97m AHD. 
Existing ground levels above the cell range from approximately RL 86.63m to RL 87.07m AHD, with the top of 
the containment cell located approximately 3.1 metres below ground level. The containment cell is managed 
by a Long Term Environmental Plan (LTEMP) to mitigate any potential health and safety risks.  
 
  
[[page 10]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project Background 10 
 
 
Figure 3 Approved Staging Plan (CSR Limited)  
 
 
  

[[page 11]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project Background 11 
 
 
Figure 4 Contamination Cell Location ( ERM, 2024 ) 
 
  

[[page 12]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project Background 12 
 
 
2.2 Project Rationale 
The rationale for the project including need and site selection is described in Table 4 below. 
Table 4 Project Rationale  
Project Detail Commentary 
Project need ▪ Supports the NSW Government’s ambition to be a leading digital economy in 
the Asia-Pacific region,  
▪ Improves the national performance of data networks available for the 
purposes of artificial intelligence, automation, analytics and security,  
▪ Generates direct employment in construction, operations, and maintenance, 
as well as indirect jobs in technology, engineering, and security,  
▪ Reduces reliance on overseas facilities, strengthening local infrastructure 
that directly contributes to the digital economy,  
▪ Improves the resilience and reliability of digital infrastructure during network 
disruptions or failures, and  
▪ Encourages global investment in the growing industrial precincts of NSW .  
Site selection The selection of the site is based on the following criteria established by the 
applicant–  
▪ Within the Sydney basin,  
▪ Close to key customers,  
▪ Within a suitably sized and serviced parcel of land,  
▪ Close to key digital (optic fibre) backbones,  
▪ Within proximity to travel and transport networks for operational staff,  
▪ In a location with high resilience and lower sensitivity to amenity impacts,  
▪ Close to the TransGrid Sydney West substation for power supply,  
▪ In a geotechnically stable location, and  
▪ In an area less susceptible to natural disasters or other shocks or stresses 
such as terrorism.  
Several locations across Sydney and Western Sydney were assessed. The 
assessed sites were deemed unsuitable, whilst others were shortlisted for further 
assessment. The selected site was deemed appropriate based on the 
abovementioned criteria. Additionally, the site is located within a growing 
industrial precinct that is within direct proximity to established transport networks, 
water supply and electrical infrastructure.   
Development required 
for the project but 
would be subject to a 
separate assessment. 
Connection or alteration to the existing water, sewer, and telecommunications 
infrastructure in the area.  
[[page 13]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 13 
 
 
3 Strategic Context 
3.1 Key Features 
The location of the site is illustrated in Figure 5. Photographs of the current site condition are provided in 
Figure 6. 
Figure 5 Local Context (Urbis, 2026) 
 

[[page 14]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 14 
 
 
Figure 6 Site Photos  
  
Picture 1 Looking south-east Picture 2 Southern interface of the site  
  
Picture 3 Looking east towards the C 2 zoned land  Picture 4 Access to site from Johston Crescent  
The key features of the site which have the potential to impact or be impacted by the proposed development 
are summarised in the table below. 
Table 5 Key Features of Site and Locality  
Descriptor Site Detail 
Land Configuration The site is an irregular shaped allotment with a total area of 21.33ha. The 
developable area of the site has an approximate area of 4.205ha. The 
developable area has the following approximate dimensions: 
▪ North: 274.1m  
▪ South: 174.8m  
▪ East: 211.4m  
▪ West: 184.4m  
A key feature of the site is the 3m level difference between Lot 306 and Lot 305 
along the northern boundary  and the 5m level difference between Lot 306 and 
Johnston Crescent to the west. To address these changes in topography and 
optimise the developable yield of Lot 306, retaining walls are proposed. Existing 
embankments adjoining the eastern environmental conservation area are to be 
retained. 

[[page 15]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 15 
 
 
Descriptor Site Detail 
Surrounding Land Use Surrounding land uses include: 
▪ North: The land immediately north is currently vacant, however, it is 
proposed to accommodate the NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (approved via SSD-
63741210), including construction and operation of two  data centre buildings, 
ancillary office space, on- site parking for 200 vehicles, civil and stormwater 
works and 12,769  square metres of deep soil landscaping.  
▪ East: The land to the east along Burley Road comprises rural -residential land 
use activities.  The site also contains C2 Environmental Conservation zoned 
land to the east of the developable area  which is at higher elevation and 
comprises dense vegetation . This serves as a visual buffer between the 
developable area and the rural -residential land to the east.  
▪ South: The land to the south includes a warehouse and distribution centre 
occupied by a range of tenants. Further south, the Horsley Logistics Park 
contains additional light industrial uses and distribution facilities.  
▪ West: Johnston Crescent forms the western boundary of the site, with 
surrounding land zoned for industrial and employment purposes.  
Site Access Site access will be provided via Johnston Crescent, utilising the proposed driveway 
that forms part of SSD-63741210 for the NEXTDC S4 Data Centre. 
Easements and 
Covenants 
▪ A restriction on the use of the developable area of the site (Z1) which states:  
– No further development on the lot burdened, being Part Lot 306 
designated (Z1) on the plan, is to take place unless it is in accordance 
with Development Consent restricted to the type of development 
permissible in the zone.  
No development shall be permitted on the lot hereby burdened unless it 
is to be developed to the final levels in accordance with the development 
consent having Notice of Determination No: 893.8/2013 issued by the 
Council of Fairfield on 19 January 2021.  
Council will raise no objection to the extinguishing of this restriction in 
respect of a lot herby burdened when development is completed on that 
lot in accordance with Determination No. 893.8/2013 dated 19 January 
2021. 
Services & Utilities The future data centre will obtain electricity via power feed connections from the 
approved substation located on Lot 305. Industrial water will be supplied via 
connections extending from Lot 305, drawing on a combined supply from Sydney 
Water and coNEXA’s Aquanet Network Extension. 
Acid Sulfate Soils The site is not identified in the Fairfield Local Environmental Plan 2013 as 
containing acid sulfate soils.  
Contamination The land was remediated in accordance with the approved bulk earthworks 
consent DA-893-201, with the approval confirming that the site could be made 
suitable for industrial development.  
As outlined in Section 2.1 of this report, a containment cell was established 
beneath the site to manage contamination identified during the site 
establishment and subdivision works. The containment cell is managed in 
accordance with an LTEMP and was subject to a Site Audit Statement confirming 
that contamination has been appropriately contained and that the remainder of 
[[page 16]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 16 
 
 
Descriptor Site Detail 
the site is free from contamination, subject to the implementation of the measures 
in the LTEMP.  
Stormwater and 
Flooding 
The site is not identified as flood prone, including during the Probable Maximum 
Flood (PMF) event. Previous flood studies prepared for the NEXTDC S4 Data Centre 
project on Lot 305 confirm that the land is not subject to riverine or creek flooding. 
As part of the S4 assessment, DPHI requested additional detailed modelling to 
determine whether the site could become isolated during flood events. That 
modelling confirmed that the S4 Data Centre site, would not be cut off during 
flooding and that safe and feasible evacuation routes are available. Given that the 
site will also utilise Johnston Crescent and the proposed Lot 305 evacuation 
routes, the land subject to this Scoping Report would also not be cut off during 
flooding, with safe and feasible evacuation routes available.  
Bushfire Prone Land The south-eastern part of the site is identified as bushfire prone land, including 
Category 1 and Vegetation Buffer. An Asset Protection Zone (APZ) is established 
along the interface with the adjoining C2 zoned land. 
Biodiversity and 
Vegetation  
The developable area has been cleared of vegetation. The adjoining C2 zoned 
land will be retained and managed as a conservation area. 
Aboriginal Heritage The site is within or partly within a ‘Potential Investigation Area’ based on the 
findings of the Fairfield Aboriginal Heritage Study 2017.  
European Heritage There are no items of local, or state heritage significance situated on the site. The 
site is not within a heritage conservation area. 
Obstacle Limitation 
Surface 
The site is located within the Obstacle Limitation Surface (OLS) area for the future 
Western Sydney International (WSI) Airport. The site is partially located within the 
222.2-222.2m OLS and partially located within the 223.2-223.2m OLS. The proposed 
development has a maximum height of 38.67 metres and will therefore not 
penetrate the OLS.  
Australian Noise 
Exposure Forecast 
(ANEF) Contour 
As a result of the site being located nearby to the future WSI Airport, the site is 
located within the 20-25 ANEF contour.  
 
  
[[page 17]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 17 
 
 
Figure 7 Site Overlays  (Urbis, 2026)  
 
Picture 5 Land Zoning Map  
 
 
Picture 6 Riparian lands and watercourses  
 
 
 
Picture 7 Bushfire Prone Land Map   Picture 8 Biodiversity Values Map  
 
Picture 9 OLS Map 
 
 
Picture 10 ANEF Map  
 
  

[[page 18]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 18 
 
 
3.2 Project Justification 
Table 6 Strategic Context  
Plan  Detail 
Greater Sydney 
Region Plan – A 
Metropolis of Three 
Cities 
The Greater Sydney Region Plan: A Metropolis of Three Cities – connecting people 
(the Regional Plan) is the overarching strategic plan that seeks to shape future 
development for the Sydney metropolitan area over the next 40 years. Under the 
Region Plan, the site is located within the Western City District, which forms as part of 
the Western Parkland City.  
The project is consistent with the Regional Plan for these reasons: 
▪ Objective 1. Infrastructure supports the three cities  
The proposal will improve accessibility and supply of new digital storage 
infrastructure to Horsley Park which is an emerging employment precinct. The  
proposal supports the major economic driver of digital technology and 
constitutes critical support infrastructure within a rapidly evolving, digitally 
dependent society. The proposed data centre development would provide 
cloud storage to available clients, allowing for more efficient operations on 
end-to-end business models.  
▪ Objective 7. Jobs and skills for the city.  
The proposal encourages employment -generating opportunities and economic 
prosperity, which has positive influences on the wider locality. The site is zoned 
for industrial purposes. Industrial zoned land is identified as vital in providing 
increased employment opportunities within the Western Parklands City and 
integrating new and existing employment precincts with transport 
infrastructure that will attract business investment and activity. The  proposal 
will provide approximately 1,100 full- time equivalent c onstruction jobs and 
approximately 217 full- time operational jobs  
▪ Objective 24. Economic sectors are targeted for success . 
The proposal aligns with the vision of the objective as it will support the continued 
growth of the WSEA as a hub of employment activity through co- location of key 
digital infrastructure with innovative technology businesses. Increased storage 
capacity respond s to changing technologies, embracing opportunities to expand 
startup and digital innovation that allow people to work remotely.  
Western City District 
Plan 
The Western District Plan (the District Plan) is a 20-year plan to manage growth in 
the context of economic, social and environmental matters to implement the 
objectives of the Greater Sydney Region Plan.  
The project is consistent with the District Plan for these reasons: 
▪ W1. Planning for a city supported by infrastructure.  
Data centres are essential digital infrastructure that support the operation of 
modern businesses. The S4 Phase 2 proposal will deliver both retail and 
hyperscale capacity, improving the availability of secure digital infrastructure 
within Horsley Park. It s location within the WSEA supports co location with key 
customers and strengthens business activity across the precinct.  
▪ W8 Leveraging industry opportunities from the Western Sydney Airport and 
Badgerys Creek Aerotropolis  
The site is located within 10km of Western Sydney International Airport. The 
proposal will support the growth of airport related and knowledge intensive 
[[page 19]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 19 
 
 
Plan  Detail 
industries by providing high value digital infrastructure in proximity to the 
Aerotropolis.  
▪ W11 Growing investment, business opportunities and jobs in strategic centres  
Horsley Park forms part of the WSEA, which was established to provide industrial 
land close to major transport corridors and generate local employment. The 
proposal represents significant private investment in the precinct and will 
support up to 1,100 full  time equivalent jobs during construction and 
approximately 217 ongoing operational roles. It will enable residents of Western 
Sydney to access employment closer to home.  
▪ W19. Reducing carbon emissions and managing energy, water and waste 
efficiently.  
The proposal incorporates contemporary energy efficient technologies and 
sustainability measures, including:  
– Efficient building systems including LED lighting with smart controls.  
– Provision of rooftop solar photovoltaic.  
– Selection of low embodied carbon materials and energy efficient 
equipment. 
– Water efficient fixtures and fittings.  
Rainwater harvesting and reuse for irrigation and amenities. Raingardens and 
water-sensitive urban design  to treat stormwater  and reduce irrigation 
requirements 
Draft Sydney Plan  The Draft Sydney Plan (the Draft Plan ) is the NSW Government’s long term 
framework to guide Sydney’s growth to 2056. It establishes an integrated approach 
to housing, jobs, transport, infrastructure and environmental protection to support a 
productive, liveable and sustainable city. The Plan promotes a polycentric structure, 
organising Greater Sydney into six cities and major centres rather than a single 
CBD. This approach seeks to co locate jobs, services and housing, reduce travel 
demand and strengthen lo cal communities. It also prioritises transport-oriented 
development, with higher density housing and employment focused around key 
centres and corridors.  
The site is located near the Parramatta CBD and within identified employment 
lands. Western Sydney’s scale and strengths in manufacturing, construction, 
warehousing, transport and logistics underpin its significant contribution to 
Sydney’s economy.   
 Response 4: Grow well -located jobs  
The data centre will be positioned close to major transport corridors, freight 
networks and Western Sydney International Airport. This location supports 
efficient access for workers and service providers and reinforces established 
and emerging employment c lusters . 
 Response 5: Align infrastructure with planned growth  
Data centres require high capacity  power, fibre connectivity and reliable 
servicing, all of which are available or being delivered in the precinct. Locating 
digital infrastructure in an area planned for long term growth supports orderly 
development and maximises public and private infrastr ucture investment.  
 Response 8: Secure an ongoing pipeline of productive industrial lands  
[[page 20]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 20 
 
 
Plan  Detail 
The surrounding industrial precinct accommodates warehousing, logistics 
estates and other data centre campuses. Integrating the proposal within this 
strategically planned employment area supports the diversification and long 
term viability of industrial la nd in Western Sydney.  
Fairfield Local 
Strategic Planning 
Statement  
The Fairfield Local Strategic Planning Statement (LSPS) is a 20-year plan and land 
use vision that seeks to appropriately develop jobs, homes, and infrastructure in 
conjunction with the identified priorities of the Fairfield community. 
The project is consistent with the following Planning Priorities of the LSPS: 
▪ Planning Priority 6 –  Ensure infrastructure is aligned to accommodate 
planned growth and community needs  
The proposal is consistent with this priority as it delivers critical digital 
infrastructure in a location supported by existing and approved utilities, access 
arrangements and servicing via Lot 305. The stage d delivery of development on 
Lot 305 and Lot 306 will allow  infrastructure demand to be managed efficientl y 
to minimise impacts on the broader network. The development supports 
Fairfield’s role in a ccommodating employment and infrastructure growth within 
the WSEA. 
▪ Planning Priority 7 –  Leverage opportunities from major new district 
infrastructure and technological developments  
The proposal directly supports emerging technology and digital industries, 
aligning with the LSPS focus on leveraging technological change and regional 
infrastructure investment. As a hyperscale data centre, the proposal contributes 
to Fairfield’s participation in the evolving Western Sydney economy linked to the 
Western Sydney Airport, Aerotropolis and associated innovation sectors.  
▪ Planning Priority 11 –  Promote a robust economy which generates diverse 
services and job opportunities  
The proposal supports Priority 11  through significant capital investment and the 
creation of a maximum of 1,100  construction jobs and 271 ongoing operational 
jobs. The development introduces high- value, future-focused jobs and 
strengthens the economic diversity of Fairfield’s industrial areas, supporting the 
economic resilience of Fairfield . 
▪ Planning Priority 12 –  Plan for and manage urban services land  
The data centre is permissible within  IN1 General Industrial zoned land and 
consistent with the LSPS objective of protecting employment lands for urban 
services and infrastructure uses. The proposal makes efficient use of industrial 
land, the strategic role of Fairfield’s industrial precincts in supporting regional 
productivity.  
 
  
[[page 21]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 21 
 
 
3.3 Cumulative Impacts with Future Projects 
Approved and likely future developments which may be relevant in the cumulative impact assessment of the 
proposal are summarised in the following table. 
Table 7 Nearby Projects  
Map 
Ref No. 
SSDA 
Reference  
Development Description Current Status Distance 
from Site 
1 SSD-10436 ESR Horsley Logistics Park - Construction, fit-out 
and operation of eight warehousing and 
distribution tenancies in four buildings with a 
total gross floor area of 95,679m2, loading docks, 
hardstand areas, truck and car parking spaces, 
landscaping, infrastructure and signage. 
Approved: 31 
March 2021 
Last modified: 22 
May 2023 
500m 
3 SSD-77020757 Oakdale East Industrial Estate, Precinct 2 - 
Staged construction and fit-out of four 
warehouses for 24-hour, 7 day warehouse and 
distribution use; with 94,716 sqm total GFA; 15 m 
building height; 445 car parking spaces; hard 
stand area; vehicle access; and landscaping. 
Under assessment 500m 
11 SSD-10479 200 Aldington Road Industrial Estate – Staged 
development including concept and Stage 1 of a 
warehouse and distribution centre at 200 
Aldington Road, Eastern Creek.  
Approved: 5 May 
2023 
Last modified: 11 
December 2025 
2.3km  
12 SSD-82211208 STACK SYD01 Data Centre, Erskine Park - 
Construction and operation of a data centre 
with an operational capacity of 450 MW 
including a building height of 24 m, 82,020 sqm 
of GFA, substation, water storage, ancillary 
infrastructure and landscaping at 78 Lockwood 
Road, Erskine Park.  
Under assessment  2.1km  
13 SSD-10330 Roberts Road (CDC) Data Centre – Expansion of 
existing data centre with offices, infrastructure 
and landscaping at 17 Roberts Road, Eastern 
Creek 
Approved: July 
2020 
Last modified: 
under 
assessment.  
1.9km 
14 SSD-63741210 NEXTDC S4 Data Centre, Horsley Park – 6 data 
centre buildings (250 MW capacity), substation, 
car parking and landscaping at 16 Johnston 
Crecent, Horsley Park.  
Approved: 24 
December 2025  
50m  
16 SSD-101067971 Project Atlas Data Centre Eastern Creek - 
Demolition of existing buildings and 
construction/operation of a 500MVA data 
centre at 10 Roberts Road, including offsite 
enabling infrastructure. 
Preparation of EIS 1.9km  
17 SSD-41807966 Roussell Road Warehouse and Distribution 
Centre - The construction and operation of a 
25,113 m2 warehouse with 1,352 m2 of office 
Approved 20 
December 2023 
1.6km 
[[page 22]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 22 
 
 
Map 
Ref No. 
SSDA 
Reference  
Development Description Current Status Distance 
from Site 
space, with associated hardstand and 
landscaping. 
Last modified: 23 
October 2024 
18 SSD-47320208 Project Echidna Data Centre Eastern Creek - The 
Construction and Operation of a Data Centre 
with an operational capacity of 35MW including 
data hall fitout, associated emergency back-up 
generators and cooling plant, office space, 
equipment rooms and car parking. 
Approved: 05 April 
2024 
2.5km 
20 SSD-71144719 Horsley Logistics Park Stage 2 - Construction of 
two warehouse buildings and ancillary office 
space with a total gross floor area of 55,944 
sqm, access driveways, hardstand areas and 
loading docks, car parking, landscaping, 
earthworks. 
Approved: 4 July 
2025 
100m 
21 SSD-5248 Gazcorp Industrial Estate – Staged development 
consent for the indicative layout of fifteen new 
industrial development sites., central service 
road, riparian setback zones, and car parking.  
Approved: 11 
November 2019 
Last modified: 28 
March 2025 
1.6km 
The potential cumulative impacts of the project will be addressed in the EIS in accordance with the DPHI 
Assessing Cumulative Impacts guidelines. This includes consideration of the following matters: 
▪ Other SSD and State significant infrastructure (SSI ) projects, 
▪ Projects that are classified as designated development and require an EIS,  
▪ Projects that require assessment under division 5.1 of the EP& eA Act that are likely to significantly affect 
the environment and require an EIS,  
▪ Projects that have been declared to be controlled actions under the Commonwealth Environment 
Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 ( EPBC Act), and  
▪ Any major greenfield and urban renewal developments that are scheduled for the area (e.g. new areas 
zoned for urban development).  
A map showing nearby approved and likely future development relevant to the cumulative impact 
assessment is provided at Figure 8 below.  
  
[[page 23]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Strategic Context 23 
 
 
Figure 8 SSDA Map (Urbis, 2026)  
 

[[page 24]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 24 
 
 
4 Project 
This section outlines the key features of the proposed development, including the project area, the 
conceptual physical layout and design (including likely mitigation measures), the main land use activities 
and the likely timing for delivery of the project. 
It also includes a high-level of feasible alternatives which were considering having regard to the project 
objectives outlined in Section 2.2 of this report, including the consequences of not carrying out the 
development. 
4.1 Project Overview 
Table 8 Project Overview  
Key Element  Proposal  
Project Area The site is irregular in shape and has a total area of approximately 21.33ha. The 
developable area of the site has an approximate area of 4.205ha.  
Project 
Description 
The project includes the construction and operation of a data centre comprising:  
▪ Earthworks, excavation, and retaining walls,  
▪ Construction and operation of a data centre development with ancillary offices 
comprising: 
– Two data centre buildings with the following maximum heights:  
Building EF = 38.67 metres over four storeys 
Building G = 32.37 metres over three storeys 
– A total gross floor area of approximately 37,425 m2 
▪ Internal roads and vehicle crossovers,  
▪ On-site car parking and loading areas with vehicle access provided from Lot 305 
via the approved secure accessway,  
▪ Utility and service connections, including power from the Lot 305 substation and 
industrial water supply from approved infrastructure. 
▪ Associated landscaping.  
Land Use Data centre  with ancillary office space 
Gross Floor Area 
(GFA) 
Total GFA of 37,425m2, broken down as follows: 
▪ 34,285m2 of data hall GFA  
▪ 3,140m2 of ancillary office floor space including front of house meeting and 
administrative spaces.  
Building Heights  ▪ Building EF: 38.67 metres over four storeys  
▪ Building G: 32.37 metres over three storeys  
Floor Space Ratio 0.89:1 
Deep Soil Area 12,769m2 
Car Parking 160 car spaces 
Power 
Consumption 
134.4 megawatts 
[[page 25]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 25 
 
 
Key Element  Proposal  
Utilities Diesel Fuel Tanks: 
The proposed data centre will incorporate above-ground, belly tanks that provide 
24-hour availability of diesel for back up generation. The total diesel storage on the 
site will be 2,710kL.  
Industrial Water: 
Industrial water used for mechanical cooling will be supplied via infrastructure located 
on Lot 305. The supply comprises a combined diverse feed from Sydney Water and 
coNEXA’s Aquanet Network Extension.  
Fire Water:  
Fire water supply will be fed from two on-site storage tanks from Lot 305, each with the 
effective capacity of 407 kL. 
Potable Water: 
Potable water will be provided via an existing Sydney Water main entering Lot 305 from 
Burley Road. This connection forms the primary interface for incoming potable water 
and links to the site wide mechanical and domestic water ring mains. Domestic water 
will be serviced by an additional connection from the existing Sydney Water main 
entering Lot 306.   
Substation:  
Electricity will be supplied from the approved 330/33kV substation located on Lot 305, 
with power distributed to Lot 306 via an underground connection.  The power 
infrastructure will provide a total electricity capacity of 500MVA across Lot 305 and 
Lot 306. This includes 308 MVA allocated capacity to Lot 305 and 192 MVA allocated 
capacity to Lot 306.  
Operations and 
Management 
The facility will be constructed and operated by NEXTDC. The site will be operational on 
a 24-hour, 7 day a week basis. 
Existing Services 
and 
Infrastructure 
Existing services and infrastructure will be extended, adapted and augmented to meet 
the demands of the project. Power supply will be provided from the onsite substation 
that forms part of the adjoining data centre development. 
Estimated 
Development 
Cost 
$2 billion to $3.5 billion (excluding GST) 
Staging / Phasing The project will be delivered in three construction stages as follows: 
▪ Stage 1 - Building E, site works and road network.  
▪ Stage 2 - Building F 
▪ Stage 3 - Building G 
Jobs  ▪ Construction: 900 to 1100 jobs  (1100 at peak construction) 
▪ Operation: Approximately 217 FTE jobs  with an expected maximum of 89 staff on 
the site at any given time.  
Indicative floor plans, elevations and massing diagrams of the proposal are provided on the following pages.   
  
[[page 26]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 26 
 
 
Figure 9 Ground Floor Plan (HDR, 2026)  
 
Figure 10 Typical Level 1 –  2 Floor Plan  
 
 

[[page 27]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 27 
 
 
Figure 11 Project Massing ( Building AB and Building CD approved by SSD-63741210) (HDR, 2026)  
 
Figure 12 Proposed Sections (HDR, 2026)  
 
 
  

[[page 28]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 28 
 
 
4.2 Detailed Project Description 
4.2.1 Project Area 
The site is legally described as Lot 306 in DP1275011 and has a total area of approximately 21.33 hectares. The 
lot comprises land zoned IN1 General Industrial and C2 Environmental Conservation, in addition to a separate 
allotment located approximately 300 metres to the southwest, referred to as the landfill lot. 
The identified developable area is approximately 4.205 hectares and is confined to the IN1 General Industrial 
zoned portion of the main lot. No works are proposed within the C2 Environmental Conservation land or on the 
landfill lot. Refer to Figure 13 below.  
Figure 13 Developable Area (HDR, 2026)  
 
  

[[page 29]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 29 
 
 
Figure 14 Site Plan (HDR, 2026)  
 
 
4.2.2 Access and Car Parking 
Vehicular access will be provided via the approved secure driveway on Lot 305, which runs parallel to the 
northern boundary of Lot 306 and connects directly to the proposed internal road network. No new vehicle 
crossovers are proposed. A single site entry will accommodate both heavy vehicles and private vehicles, with 
separate entry lanes provided within the site to manage movements safely and efficiently. 
Private vehicle parking and truck loading areas are located in distinct parts of the site to ensure safe and 
functional circulation, as illustrated in Figure 15 
The development will provide a total of 150 at grade car parking spaces in accordance with Council’s 
industrial parking requirements. Motorcycle parking, bicycle parking and end of trip facilities will also be 
incorporated into the final design. 
A Civil Engineering Report, detailed civil drawings and a Traffic Impact Assessment will accompany the 
application and address the relevant engineering standards and traffic performance criteria under the 
applicable planning framework. 
 
  

[[page 30]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 30 
 
 
Figure 15 Site Circulation (HDR, 2026)  
 
4.2.3 Landscaping 
The landscape design will incorporate a mix of native and endemic trees, shrubs and groundcovers to 
enhance on site amenity and contribute to an attractive streetscape. The strategy prioritises strengthening 
the urban tree canopy and softening the built form through substantial planting within site setbacks. 
The proposal includes approximately 12,769m2 of deep soil area. The majority of landscaping is located within 
the perimeter setbacks, establishing a vegetated buffer between the development and the public domain. 
Tree species will be selected in accordance with Council’s Tree Planting List. Fencing will be setback within the 
site boundary to ensure a landscaped interface is maintained along the public domain. 
  

[[page 31]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 31 
 
 
4.3 Feasible Alternatives 
Section 192 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 (EP&A Regulation) requires an 
analysis of any feasible alternatives to the proposed development, including the consequences of not 
carrying out the development.  
NEXTDC identified three project alternatives which were considered in respect to the identified need for the 
proposed data centre. Each of these options is listed and discussed in the following table. 
Table 9 Analysis of Feasible Alternatives  
Option Comment 
Option 1 Do Nothing  This option was dismissed as the objectives of the project would not be met. If 
the proposal was not to proceed, the site would remain underutilised, 
foregoing an opportunity to provide infrastructure and employment 
opportunities. This scenario would retain the predominately vacant site, 
which is becoming increasingly redundant in the context of the changing 
architectural design and function of modern industrial developments. 
Option 2 Alternative Site Alternative sites were considered but discounted for the following reasons: 
▪ Insufficient  access to high capacity power and water infrastructure 
required to support a data centre.  
▪ Proximity to sensitive land uses, including residential areas, where 
potential impacts could not be appropriately mitigated.  
▪ Lack of proximity to key customers and employment clusters reliant on 
secure and efficient digital connectivity.  
▪ Physical constraints limiting the ability to accommodate the required 
scale and configuration of development.  
▪ Environmental constraints, including biodiversity, heritage or 
contamination considerations.  
Option 3 Alternative Design A range of alternative layouts and design configurations were explored, as 
detailed in the Concept Architectural Design Report prepared by HDR 
Architects (Appendix A). These options were discounted as they did not 
satisfactorily meet operational requirements or resulted in suboptimal urban 
design, community impacts and site planning outcomes. 
Option 4 – The Proposal The final siting and design of the proposal has been informed by a 
comprehensive assessment of site constraints and opportunities, 
consultation with relevant stakeholders, and consideration of environmental 
impacts. 
The proposal represents the preferred option because:  
▪ The site is strategically located within an emerging employment 
precinct proximate to major arterial road networks which will allow for 
easy access.  
▪ The site is a large, consolidated land holding and has been cleared of 
vegetation and levelled to accommodate future development.  
▪ The development is compatible with the surrounding industrial context. 
Environmental impacts relating to traffic, noise, air quality, biodiversity 
and visual amenity can be appropriately managed through mitigation 
measures. 
[[page 32]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Project 32 
 
 
Option Comment 
▪ Appropriate management measures can be implemented to avoid 
adverse impacts on nearby sensitive receivers.  
The site presents the most orderly and economic use and development of the 
land to deliver a new data storage facility. 
 
  
[[page 33]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Statutory Context 33 
 
 
5 Statutory Context 
This section of the report provides an overview of the key statutory requirements relevant to the site and the 
project, including:  
▪ Environmental Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act (EPBC Act) , 
▪ NSW Biodiversity Act 2016 (BC Act), 
▪ NSW Environmental Planning and Assessment 2021  (EP&A Act), 
▪ NSW Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 1979  (EP&A Regulation ), 
▪ NSW Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1997  (PoEO Act),  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021 Planning Systems SEPP , 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021 ( T&I SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Resilience and Hazards) 2021 ( R&H SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Biodiversity and Conservation) 2021 ( B&C SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Industry and Employment) 2021 ( I&E SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 2022 ( Sustainable Buildings SEPP ), 
▪ Fairfield Local Environmental Plan 2013 (FLEP 2013)  
▪ Western Sydney Employment Area – Fairfield Development Control Plan 2016 ( WSEA Fairfield DCP ). 
The following table categorise and summarises the relevant requirements in accordance with the DPHI 
guidelines. Each of these matters will be addressed in further detail within the future EIS. 
5.1 Statutory Requirements 
Table 10 categorises and summarises the relevant requirements in accordance with the DPIE State Significant 
Development Guidelines. 
Table 10 Identification of Statutory Requirements for the Project  
Statutory 
Relevance 
Action 
Power to grant 
approval 
Under Schedule 1, Clause 25 of the Planning Systems SEPP, development for the purpose 
of data centres that has a total power consumption of more than 15 megawatts is 
classified as SSD as stated by the following:  
25 Data centres (1) 
Development for the purpose of storage premises used for the storage of 
data and related information technology hardware that has a total power 
consumption of more than the relevant amount. 
(2) In this section — relevant amount means— 
a) for development in relation to which the relevant environmental 
assessment requirements are notified under the Act on or before 31 May 
2023—10 megawatts, or 
(b) for any other development—15 megawatts. 
The proposed data centre will have a total power consumption of 134.4MW and, 
accordingly, is to be assessed as an SSDA. 
[[page 34]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Statutory Context 34 
 
 
Statutory 
Relevance 
Action 
Permissibility  The site is zoned IN1 General Industrial under the I&E SEPP. The proposal comprises the 
construction and operation of a data centre, which is a form of ‘light industry’ and 
accordingly, is permissible with consent in the zone. 
EPBC Act  Under the EPBC Act, actions likely to significantly impact Matters of National 
Environmental Significance must be referred to the Commonwealth Minister for the 
Environment.  
The C2 Environmental Conservation land on the site will be retained and protected, and 
the developable portion of the site has previously been cleared of vegetation. As a result, 
no significant impacts on MNES are expected to occur. Based on the investigations 
undertaken to date, referral of the project to the Commonwealth Minister for the 
Environment is not considered necessary. 
A Biodiversity Development Assessment Report (BDAR) waiver request, prepared by a 
qualified ecologist, accompanies this Scoping Report (Appendix H) and has been 
submitted to the DPHI to confirm that a BDAR is not required.  
The biodiversity assessments conducted as part of the BDAR waiver request has 
indicated that a BDAR Waiver is able to be granted for the proposed data centre 
development.  
POEO Act  The POEO Act sets out the scheduled activities for which a licence is required. Relevant to 
this project is Section 9 under Schedule 1 of the POEO Act, which relates to ‘chemical 
storage’. 
For the purpose a scheduled activity, ‘chemical storage’ includes petroleum products 
storage, which is defined as ‘the storage or packaging of petroleum products in 
containers, bulk storage facilities or stockpiles. 
The project includes approximately 2,170kL tonnes of diesel to be stored on-site. This is 
above the 2,000-tonne limit and so the diesel storage will be classified as a scheduled 
activity for which a license is required. As such, an Environmental Protection License (EPL) 
will be required as per the requirements of schedule 1 clause 9 of the POEO Act.  
Approximately 486 tonnes of lithium-ion batteries will be stored onsite in 750 battery 
racks and replaced every seven years. This is below the 2,000-tonne limit and so lithium-
ion battery storage is not classified as a scheduled activity and a licence is not required. 
The EIS will include a Preliminary Hazard Assessment to assess the storage and handling 
of hazardous materials, including diesel and battery systems, and confirm that 
associated environmental and safety risks can be appropriately managed. 
Approvals etc. 
that do not 
apply 
Fisheries Management Act 1994 - -permit under s201,205 or 219 
Heritage Act 1977 – approval under part 4 or excavation permit under s139 
National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 – an Aboriginal Heritage Impact Permit, s90 
Rural Fires Act 1997 – a bush fire safety authority under s100B 
Water Management Act 2000 – a water use approval s89, water management work 
approval s90 or activity approval (other than an aquifer interference approval) s91. 
  
[[page 35]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Statutory Context 35 
 
 
5.2 Pre-Conditions to Granting Consent 
Table 11 outlines the pre-conditions to exercising the power to grant approval which are relevant to the 
project. 
Table 11 Pre-Conditions  
Pre-conditions to Granting 
Consent  
Comment  
Section 4.24 of the EP& A Act – 
Concept Development 
Consent 
There is no concept proposal for the development site. 
Section 66 of the EP&A 
Regulations – Contributions 
plans for certain areas 
Under section 66 a development must not be determined by the consent 
authority unless a contributions plan has been approved for the land. A 
contribution is not required if the applicant has entered into a planning 
agreement with a planning authority under Part 7 of the Act for the 
matters that may be the subject of a contributions plan.  
The Fairfield City Council Indirect (Section 7.12) Development 
Contributions Plan 2011 has been approved for land to which this Scoping 
Report relates.  
Section 175 of the EP&A 
Regulations – Infrastructure 
and environmental impact 
assessment  
SEARs are to be issued by the Secretary pursuant to section 175 of the EP&A 
Regulation and contain the detailed information identified in section 190 
and section 192 of the EP&A Regulation. Specifically, it will require a 
statement prepared by a Registered Environmental Assessment 
Practitioner (REAP). 
B&C SEPP Chapter 2 protects biodiversity values of trees and vegetation on site. 
Section 2.6 requires approval for clearing vegetation in non-rural areas 
and Section 2.15 requires a BDAR where clearing exceeds applicable 
thresholds.  
A BDAR waiver request, prepared by a qualified ecologist, accompanies 
this Scoping Report (Appendix H) and has been submitted to the DPHI to 
confirm that a BDAR is not required.  
The biodiversity assessments conducted as part of the BDAR waiver 
request has indicated that a BDAR Waiver is able to be granted for the 
proposed data centre development. 
T&I SEPP Section 2.48 requires referral of development within or adjacent to an 
electricity easement to TransGrid or Ausgrid. 
Section 2.122 requires referral of data centre development with access to a 
road to Transport for NSW. 
A Traffic Impact Assessment (TIA) will assess traffic conditions, access 
and parking, road network capacity, and pedestrian and cycling impacts, 
including changes to traffic volumes on Johnston Crescent and the 
internal road network. 
R&H SEPP Section 4.6 of the R&H SEPP requires a consent authority to be satisfied 
that the land is suitable in its contaminated state - or will be suitable, after 
remediation - for the purpose for which the development is proposed to 
be carried out. As outlined in Section 2.1 of this Scoping Report, a 
containment cell was established beneath the site to manage 
contamination identified during the site establishment and subdivision 
[[page 36]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Statutory Context 36 
 
 
Pre-conditions to Granting 
Consent  
Comment  
works. The containment cell is managed in accordance with a LTEMP and 
was subject to a Site Audit Statement confirming that contamination has 
been appropriately contained. A Contamination Assessment and/or 
advice from the Site Auditor will be provided as part of the EIS to confirm 
that the proposed development will not impact the containment cell and 
will comply with the requirements of the LTEMP. 
Chapter 3 of the R&H SEPP also aims to ensure that a minimum level of 
assessment is applied to hazardous and offensive industries and their 
potential impacts.  A Preliminary Hazard Assessment will be prepared as 
part of the EIS to assess the storage and handling of hazardous materials 
at the site and determine any associated risks.  
5.3 Mandatory Considerations 
Table 12outlines the relevant pre-conditions to exercising the power to grant approval and the section where 
these matters are addressed within the EIS. 
Table 12 Mandatory Considerations  
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
Consideration under the EP&A Act and Regulations 
Section 1.3 The relevant objects of the EP&A Act will be addressed in the EIS  
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(i) 
Relevant environmental 
planning instrument 
All relevant EPIs will be addressed in the EIS.  
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(ii) 
Relevant draft 
environmental planning 
instrument 
N/A 
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(iii) 
Relevant development 
control plan 
Western Sydney Employment Area – Fairfield Development Control Plan 2016 
(WSEA Fairfield DCP) will be considered in the EIS. 
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(iiia) 
any planning agreement 
or draft planning 
agreement 
N/A 
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(iv) 
relevant matters 
prescribed by the 
Regulations. 
The following relevant matters are applicable and will be addressed in the EIS. 
▪ Section 61 –  Additional matters that consent authority must consider  
▪ Section 62 - Consideration of fire safety  
▪ Section 63 –  Consideration for erection of temporary structures  
▪ Section 64 –  Consent authority may require upgrade of buildings  
▪ Section 66 – Contributions for certain areas in Sydney –  the Act, s4.16(1)  
▪ Section 66A –  Council related development applications – the Act 
s4.16(11) 
[[page 37]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Statutory Context 37 
 
 
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
▪ Section 67 –  Modification or surrender of development consent or existing 
use right –  the Act, s 4.17(5)  
▪ Section 68 Voluntary surrender of development consent – the Act s4.63 
Section 4.15(1)(b) the likely 
impacts of that 
development, including 
environmental impacts on 
both the natural and built 
environments, and social 
and economic impacts in 
the locality, 
The likely impacts of the development have been identified in Section 7 of this 
scoping report including those matters requiring further assessment in the EIS. 
Section 4.15(1)(c) The 
suitability of the site for 
the development 
An assessment of the suitability of the site will be undertaken within the EIS 
including whether the proposal fits within the locality and whether the site 
attributes are conducive to the proposed development.  
Section 4.15(1)(d) Any 
submissions made in 
accordance with the Act 
or regulations  
Early engagement will be undertaken with the community and agencies to 
ensure that the views are appropriately considered and detailed in the EIS. A 
detailed response to any submissions will be provided following lodgement 
and public exhibition of the EIS. 
Section 4.15(1)(e) The 
Public Interest 
The public interest of the project will be fully detailed and addressed within the 
EIS. Given the alignment of the project with Federal, State and local strategic 
policy it is considered that the project is in the public interest.  
Section 4.24 Status of 
concept development 
applications and 
consents 
N/A 
Section 4.38 Consent for 
State significant 
development 
Sets out the provisions for determining a State significant development. 
Mandatory relevant considerations under EPIs 
I&E SEPP The I&E SEPP establishes the land use zoning and development controls 
applying to the site. The following provisions will be addressed in the EIS:  
▪ Chapter 2 Western Sydney Employment Area  
– Section 2.8 Land use permissibility and consistency with zone 
objectives; 
– Section 2.17 - Requirement for development control plans. The SSDA 
will provide consideration to the WSEA Fairfield DCP , 
– Part 2.4 Principal development standards, specifically 
• Section 2.19 Ecologically sustainable development,  
• Section 2.20 Height of buildings,  
• Section 2.21 Rainwater harvesting,  
• Section 2.24 Public utility infrastructure,  
• Section 2.25 Development on or in vicinity of proposed transport 
infrastructure routes,  
[[page 38]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Statutory Context 38 
 
 
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
– Part 2.5 Miscellaneous provisions, specifically  
• Section 2.30 Design principles,  
• Section 2.31 Preservation of trees or vegetation,  
• Section 2.34 Development of land within or adjacent to transport 
investigation area,  
• Section 2.36 Development in areas subject to aircraft noise 
• Section 2.39 Water recycling and conservation  
• Section 2.40 Earthworks,  
• Section 2.44 Stormwater, water quality and water sensitive design, 
and  
▪ Chapter 3 Signage.  
The project is generally consistent with the provisions within the I&E SEPP. The 
EIS will include a detailed assessment against the relevant provisions within the 
I&E SEPP. 
R&H SEPP Section 3.10 – Potentially hazardous or potentially offensive development will 
be assessed as part of the SSDA.  
Section 4.6 – Contamination and remediation to be considered in determining 
development application. Contamination will be considered as part of the 
SSDA.   
T&I SEPP Section 2.48 – Development likely to affect an electricity transmission or 
distribution network will be considered.  
Section 2.122 – Traffic-generating development will be considered.  
Sustainable Buildings SEPP Section 3.2 – Development consent for non-residential development will be 
considered in the SSDA.  
Section 3.3 – Other considerations for large commercial development will be 
assessed as part of the SSDA.  
B&C SEPP Chapter 2 – Vegetation in non-rural areas will be considered within the SSDA.  
Considerations under other legislation 
BC Act 2016 Part 7 and 
Part 8 (2)  
The likely impact of the proposed development on biodiversity values will be 
assessed under the BC Act.  
A BDAR waiver request, prepared by a qualified ecologist, accompanies this 
Scoping Report (Appendix H) and has been submitted to the DPHI to confirm 
that a BDAR is not required.  
The biodiversity assessments conducted as part of the BDAR waiver request 
has indicated that a BDAR Waiver is able to be granted for the proposed data 
centre development. 
 EPBC Act Chapter 2 of the EPBC Act establishes controls for assessing and regulating the 
environmental impact of activities (including development) where a Matters of 
National Environmental Significance (MNES) may be affected. Under the EPBC 
Act, any action which has, will have, or is likely to have a significant impact on 
MNES is defined as a “controlled action” and requires approval from the 
relevant Commonwealth Minister. 
[[page 39]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Statutory Context 39 
 
 
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
Based on investigations undertaken, the proposal is not expected to have a 
significant impact on MNES and therefore referral under the EPBC Act is not 
considered necessary. 
A BDAR waiver request, prepared by a qualified ecologist, accompanies this 
Scoping Report (Appendix H) and has been submitted to the DPHI to confirm 
that a BDAR is not required.  
The biodiversity assessments conducted as part of the BDAR waiver request 
has indicated that a BDAR Waiver is able to be granted for the proposed data 
centre development. The EIS will also include a summary of the assessment 
undertaken against the EPBC Act requirements. 
WM Act  Section 91 regulates controlled activity approvals and aquifer interference 
approvals. For State significant development, a water use approval, water 
management work approval or controlled activity approval (other than an 
aquifer interference approval) is not required. 
Notwithstanding, the proposal will have regard to the Guidelines for Controlled 
Activities on Waterfront Land and the NSW Aquifer Interference Policy 2012, 
which will be considered and addressed within the EIS and supporting 
technical documentation. 
Roads Act 1993 Section 138 regulates works and structures in, on or over a public road 
including requirements for concurrence from TfNSW. 
The Guide for Traffic Generating Developments will be considered as part of 
the Transport Assessment for the project and assessed within the EIS. 
Rural Fires Act 1997 Planning for Bushfire Protection (NSW Rural Fire Service 2018) will be considered 
in the assessment provided within the EIS. 
Development Control Plan 
Western Sydney 
Employment Area – 
Fairfield Development 
Control Plan 2016 
In accordance with Section 2.10(1) of the Planning Systems SEPP, there is no 
requirement for assessment of the project against the WSEA Fairfield DCP. 
Notwithstanding, the proposal will consider the following parts of the WSEA 
Fairfield DCP:: 
▪ Part 3.0 Environmental Management  
▪ Part 4.2 Landscape Design  
▪ Pat 4.3 Built Form and Streetscape  
▪ Part 4.4 Fencing and Signage  
▪ Part 4.5 Road, Access and Parking  
▪ Part 4.6 Safety, Surveillance and Maintenance  
Development Contributions Plans 
Fairfield City Council 
Indirect (Section 7.12) 
Development 
Contributions Plan 2011 
A contribution of 1% of the estimated development cost is required. 
Housing and Productivity 
Contributions 
The relevant base rate for the HPC is $15 per square metre of new industrial 
GFA. The total contributions payable will be calculated upon completion of a 
finalised design. 
[[page 40]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Community Engagement 40 
 
 
6 Community Engagement 
The following sections of the report describe the engagement activities that have already been carried out 
for the project, and the engagement to be carried out during the preparation of the EIS. 
6.1 Engagement Carried Out 
The proposed development reflects discussions with the following key agencies and stakeholders: 
Table 13 Agency and Stakeholder  Engagement  
Agency / 
Stakeholder  
Date Comments/Feedback 
Department of 
Planning, 
Housing and 
Infrastructure 
22/01/2026 An initial briefing meeting was held following with DPHI following the 
submission of a request for Industry Specific SEARs on 16 December 2025. 
During this meeting, the following matters were raised by DPHI:  
1. DPHI advised that a Scoping Report is required to support the issue of 
project-specific SEARs. Accordingly, this Scoping Report has been 
prepared and submitted to facilitate the issue of project -specific 
SEARs.  
2. NEXTDC is to outline the proposed water and power servicing 
arrangement s and how the Lot 305 connections can be utilised to 
service Lot 306.  A high-level infrastructure servicing strategy has 
been prepared by NEXTDC and is submitted at Appendix  C and 
discussed in Section 4 of this Scoping Report .  
3. DPHI advised that a BDAR Waiver Request should  be prepared which 
includes an assessment of indirect impacts to flora and fauna, such 
as light spill. A BDAR waiver request, prepared by a qualified 
ecologist, accompanies this Scoping Report (Appendix H ) and has 
been submitted to the DPHI to confirm that a BDAR is not required.  
The biodiversity assessments conducted as part of the BDAR waiver 
request has indicated that a BDAR Waiver is able to be granted for 
the proposed data centre development.  
4. A LTEMP applies to the containment cell beneath the site. For DPHI to 
confirm that the site is suitable for the proposed development, a 
statement from a site auditor would be required. A Site Audit 
Statement previously prepared for t he containment cell confirms 
that the site is suitable for the proposed industrial development.  
5. A render of the proposal was requested by DPHI . This is 
acknowledged and a detailed render of the project will be provided  
to DPHI separately  prior to the issuing of SEARs.  
TransGrid Current and 
ongoing 
The contract executed between NEXTDC and TransGrid includes a 
proposed supply provision for Lot 305 and Lot 306. The proposed power 
supply strategy has been developed in consultation with TransGrid and 
demonstrates that the development can be accommodated within the 
capacity of the existing authority infrastructure established to service the 
adjoining NEXTDC S4 Data Centre project on Lot 305. . 
Sydney Water 25 November 
2025 
The proposed water and wastewater servicing strategy has been 
developed in consultation with Sydney Water and demonstrates that the 
development can be accommodated within the capacity of the existing 
[[page 41]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Community Engagement 41 
 
 
Agency / 
Stakeholder  
Date Comments/Feedback 
authority infrastructure servicing the adjoining NEXTDC S4 Data Centre 
project on Lot 305. A Technical Memorandum prepared by GHD is provided 
at Appendix E. The memorandum assesses the performance of the 
existing water supply network and identifies measures required to support 
the projected water demand for both Lot 305 and Lot 306 through to 2028.    
NEXTDC is currently continuing engagement with Sydney Water through 
the subsequent stages of the Section 73 Notice of Requirement 
application process.  
Nearby 
residents 
February 
2026 
Urbis Engagement prepared a letter for nearby residents notifying them of 
several site investigation works being carried out on or nearby to Lot 306, 
including the establishment of noise loggers, photography, and 
background air quality assessments. This letter is provided at Appendix F. 
Registered 
Aboriginal 
Parties 
February 
2026 
Urbis Archaeology is preparing an Aboriginal Cultural Heritage 
Assessment Report (ACHAR) to accompany the EIS. As part of this 
process, consultation has been undertaken with Registered Aboriginal 
Parties (RAPs), including seeking feedback on the proposed background 
information and methodology for the ACHAR. Details of this consultation 
are provided at Appendix G. 
The consultation period is open until 19 March 2026. To date, two 
responses have been received from RAPs, being the Corroboree Aboriginal 
Corporation and Murrabidge, both confirming their interest in 
participating in the ACHAR process. 
Once the SEARs are received, the Applicant will proceed with the formal consultation process as part of 
preparing the EIS, as detailed in Section 6.2 below. 
6.2 Future Engagement to be Carried out by the Applicant 
Further community and stakeholder consultation will be undertaken in the preparation and assessment of 
the EIS including: 
▪ Key Stakeholders:  it is proposed to consult with the following stakeholders during the preparation of 
the EIS: 
– DPHI, 
– Fairfield City Council,  
– Transport for NSW,  
– Sydney Water,  
– Water NSW, 
– Rural Fire Service,  
– TransGrid,  
– Optus,  
– Jemena, and   
– NSW Environmental Protection Authority ( EPA).  
▪ Other Interested Stakeholders:  additional stakeholders may be identified during the preparation of the 
EIS.  
[[page 42]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Community Engagement 42 
 
 
▪ Key Actions:  the following actions will be undertaken to keep the community informed regarding the 
project, obtain feedback from the community on the project and engaged with stakeholders on the 
detailed assessment of key matters:  
– A dedicated engagement strategy will be prepared following the issue of SEARs,  
– Additional consultation actions may be identified following further engagement with key 
stakeholders and DPHI, and  
– The EIS and supporting documentation will be placed on public exhibition, providing stakeholders 
with an additional opportunity to review the Project, including the final development plans and the 
detailed specialist studies and assessment reports accompan ying the final EIS.  
▪ The proposed actions are consistent with the community participation objectives in the Undertaking 
Engagement Guidelines for State Significant Projects. An engagement consultant will be responsible for 
monitoring, reviewing and adapting the effectiveness o f the engagement strategy to encourage 
community participation in the Project.  
An Engagement Outcomes Report will be provided with the EIS. 
  
[[page 43]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 43 
 
 
7 Proposed Assessment of Impacts 
This section identifies the key impacts which will be further investigated and assessed within the EIS, including 
the proposed approach to assessing each of these matters. It also identifies the matters addressed in the 
scoping phase that are unlikely to result in significant impacts and do not warrant further consideration in the 
EIS. 
7.1 Matters Requiring Further Assessment in the EIS 
Table 14 outlines the relevant matters and impacts which will be addressed in detail within the EIS. It outlines 
the matters and impacts of particular concern to the community and other stakeholders. 
Table 14 Matters requiring assessment in the EIS  
Matter  Consideration  
Statutory 
Context  
The EIS will demonstrate consistency with the relevant planning framework and approval 
pathway for the development. 
Estimated 
development 
cost and 
employment 
The estimated development cost (EDC) will be assessed and addressed within an EDC 
report. The EIS will also assess the employment generated by the proposal, including 
both direct and indirect job creation during construction and operation: 
The proposal will contribute to employment growth within the Western Sydney 
Employment Area and responds to:  
▪ Forecasted population growth,  
▪ Existing supply and vacancy rate for employment lands, and  
▪ Proposed supply of employment lands.  
Built Form and 
Urban Design 
The Concept Architectural Design Report prepared by HDR (Appendix A) present 
indicative building footprints and envelopes for this proposal.  
The development comprises two separate data centre buildings arranged in parallel 
across the site, including a larger building (Building EF) with a maximum height of 
38.67m and a smaller building (Building G) with a maximum height of 32.37m. The 
proposal has a total gross floor area of approximately 37,425m2. 
The site layout positions car parking areas toward the rear of the site, while the office 
components and main building entries address the northern driveway access. This 
arrangement provides a clear and welcoming arrival point into the site. Varied setbacks 
along Johnston Crescent have been incorporated to create visual interest, improve site 
circulation and strengthen the landscaped interface with the public domain. 
Generators and associated plant have been located inward facing within the site to 
minimise potential noise and air quality impacts on nearby receivers. 
The built form responds to the surrounding industrial context and will be designed to 
manage visual impacts through high quality architecture and landscaping. Design 
considerations will address site topography, including cut and fill requirements and 
retaining walls. 
The proposal also seeks to deliver a high-quality landscape outcome, maximising deep 
soil areas and tree canopy planting to enhance amenity, provide shading and reduce 
urban heat island effects. 
The EIS will be accompanied by detailed Architectural Plans, a Design Report and 
Landscape Plans responding to the Better Placed framework. A BCA Compliance Report 
and Accessibility Report will also be prepared to demonstrate that the development can 
achieve compliance with relevant building and accessibility requirements. 
[[page 44]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 44 
 
 
In addition, a light spill assessment will also be prepared, as requested by DPHI during 
the initial project meeting, to confirm that lighting particularly associated with the office 
components will not adversely impact nearby receivers or adjoining biodiversity land. 
Visual Impact Visual impacts will be assessed in the EIS through the preparation of a Visual Impact 
Assessment (VIA). The VIA will assess the visibility, bulk and scale of the proposed 
development, including the effectiveness of building design, landscaping and 
associated site works in managing visual amenity. 
Given the site’s location within an established industrial precinct, the proposed 
development is considered generally consistent with the broader visual character of the 
surrounding employment lands. Notwithstanding this context, the visual scale of the 
proposed data centre buildings and the modified site topography will be assessed from 
a range of viewpoints within the surrounding public domain and from nearby residential 
receivers. 
In particular, the VIA will consider potential visual impacts to the semi-rural residential 
dwellings located to the east of the site within land zoned RU4 Primary Production Small 
Lots. These dwellings are generally characterised by larger lot sizes, vegetation cover 
and a more open rural landscape setting. The VIA will therefore assess the visibility of the 
proposed built form from these properties and evaluate the effectiveness of proposed 
landscape buffers, existing topography and building design measures in minimising 
visual impacts. 
The VIA will include a series of representative viewpoints supported by photomontages 
or verified visual simulations to illustrate the scale and appearance of the proposed 
development within its surrounding context. 
Key viewpoints to be assessed as outlined in Appendix B include: 
▪ The eastern residential area,  
▪ The Johnston Crescent street frontage,  
▪ The southern residential area  
▪ View from the intersection of Old Wallgrove Road and Latitude Road  
Additional viewpoints will also be identified within the VIA where necessary to 
appropriately assess the built form, bulk and scale of the proposal. 
Figure 16 identifies the proposed viewpoint locations.  
Figure 16 Proposed viewpoint locations (Urbis, 2026)  
 
 

[[page 45]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 45 
 
 
Noise & 
Vibration 
The proposed development has the potential to generate noise and vibration impacts 
during both construction and operation, including cumulative impacts with surrounding 
large scale industrial developments and nearby sensitive residential receivers. A Noise 
and Vibration Impact Assessment (NVIA) will be prepared and included in the EIS to 
address these matters in accordance with the Noise Policy for Industry, the Interim 
Construction Noise Guideline and the Road Noise Policy. 
The NVIA will include a detailed site survey to characterise the existing noise 
environment and establish appropriate construction and operational noise criteria in 
accordance with NSW requirements. The assessment will involve unattended noise 
monitoring at representative locations for a nominal 7-day period under suitable 
meteorological conditions and outside school holidays, supported by short term 
attended measurements to identify key noise sources and assist with data 
interpretation. Proposed noise monitoring locations are provided at Figure 17. 
Construction and operational noise levels will be predicted at the nearest noise sensitive 
receivers and assessed against relevant legislation, policies and standards. Particular 
consideration will be given to nearby residential receivers, including semi-rural dwellings 
located on RU4 zoned land to the east and residential receivers located to the west of 
the site. The NVIA will also consider the broader industrial noise environment and the 
potential for cumulative noise contributions from existing and approved developments 
within the surrounding employment precinct. This will include the approved Phase 1 
NEXTDC S4 data centre on Lot 305, with the assessment considering the combined 
operational noise from Phase 1 and the proposed Phase 2 development to represent the 
ultimate operational scenario. 
To support the operational assessment, a 3D acoustic model of the operational facility 
will be developed using SoundPLAN software. The model will incorporate available plant 
sound power data, building layouts and site elevation information to predict operational 
noise levels and demonstrate compliance with applicable project noise criteria. The 
modelling will consider noise from key plant and equipment including chillers, cooling 
equipment, transformers, air handling equipment and backup generators. The 
assessment will also consider the potential for tonal or low frequency noise 
characteristics associated with mechanical plant in accordance with the requirements 
of the Noise Policy for Industry. 
The NVIA will also assess noise associated with the routine testing of backup generators, 
including potential simultaneous testing scenarios, to ensure that these activities can be 
undertaken in compliance with the relevant operational noise criteria. 
Where exceedances are identified, noise and vibration mitigation measures will be 
recommended, modelled and refined in consultation with the project team. The 
assessment will also review mechanical and electrical concept designs to identify noise 
control requirements and define maximum sound power levels for key plant such as 
generators and chillers to ensure operational compliance. 
Figure 17 provides the proposed noise logger locations.  
[[page 46]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 46 
 
 
Figure 17 Proposed Noise Logger Locations (Aurecon, 2026)  
 
Air Quality An Air Quality Impact Assessment (AQIA) will be prepared as part of the EIS to assess 
potential air quality impacts during the construction and operation of the development. 
The site is located within an established and expanding industrial precinct, where 
existing air quality is primarily influenced by vehicle movements, logistics activities and 
other industrial land uses. 
Construction activities may generate temporary air emissions, primarily from dust 
associated with earthworks, material handling and vehicle movements, as well as 
exhaust emissions from plant and equipment. The AQIA will identify nearby sensitive 
receivers, including semi-rural residential dwellings located on RU4 zoned land to the 
east and residential receivers located to the west of the site. The assessment will 
consider potential construction impacts at these locations and recommend appropriate 
mitigation measures such as dust suppression, management of vehicle movements, 
stabilisation of exposed surfaces and minimisation of plant idling. Construction impacts 
are expected to be localised and temporary. 
Operational air emissions will primarily relate to exhaust emissions from standby diesel 
generators, which are expected to operate only during routine testing and during 
occasional power outages. The AQIA will include atmospheric dispersion modelling to 
assess potential impacts at nearby sensitive receivers under routine testing and 
conservative peak emission scenarios, including the potential simultaneous operation of 
multiple generators. Predicted pollutant concentrations will be assessed against 
relevant air quality criteria. 
The assessment will also consider cumulative air quality impacts where relevant, 
including emissions associated with the approved Phase 1 NEXTDC S4 development on 
Lot 305 where applicable, to represent the ultimate operational scenario for the site. 
Odour impacts are not expected given the nature of the proposed operations. 
The AQIA will be prepared by a suitably qualified specialist in accordance with relevant 
NSW legislation and guidance, including the Protection of the Environment Operations 
Act 1997, the Protection of the Environment Operations (Clean Air) Regulation 2022 and 
the Approved Methods for the Modelling and Assessment of Air Pollutants in NSW. 
Appropriate mitigation, management and monitoring measures will be identified to 

[[page 47]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 47 
 
 
ensure compliance with applicable air quality criteria during both construction and 
operation. 
Traffic, transport 
and accessibility  
Vehicle access to the site will be provided via the approved secure driveway on 
neighbouring Lot 305, which connects to Johnston Crescent and the surrounding road 
network and provides direct access to the internal road network for the S4 Phase 2 
development.  
No new permanent public road access points are proposed as part of this application. 
However, a temporary construction access from Johnston Crescent is proposed to 
facilitate construction activities. 
The development is expected to generate increased traffic during both construction and 
operation. A TIA will be prepared to assess existing and future traffic conditions, site 
access arrangements and parking provision, and potential impacts on the surrounding 
road network The assessment will also consider heavy vehicle movements, internal 
circulation and safe separate of truck and passenger vehicle movements within the site. 
Construction-related traffic impacts will be managed through a Construction Traffic 
Management Plan (CTMP). During operation, a Green Travel Plan will be prepared to 
minimise operational traffic impacts and support sustainability objectives.    
Contamination The site was subject to a previous subdivision approval which confirmed that the land 
could be made suitable for industrial development. As part of these works, a 
containment cell was established beneath the site to manage contamination 
identified during t he site establishment and subdivision activities.  
The containment cell is located beneath the site, with its underground extent 
illustrated in Figure 4 of this report. It extends between a maximum depth of RL 73.80m 
AHD and a maximum height of RL 83.97m AHD. The surface level above the 
containment cell ranges from approximately RL 86.63m to RL 87.07m AHD, with the cell 
located approximately 3.1m below th e existing ground level.  
The proposed development has been designed to maintain levels that ensure the 
containment cell remains undisturbed. The containment cell is managed in 
accordance with a LTEMP and is subject to a Site Audit Statement confirming that 
contamination has been a ppropriately contained and that the site is suitable for 
industrial use, subject to the implementation of the management measures within the 
LTEMP. 
Previous investigations have confirmed the suitability of the site for industrial 
development. If required, further contamination assessment and or advice from the Site 
Auditor will be provided as part of the EIS to confirm that the proposed development will 
not impact the containment cell and will comply with the requirements of the LTEMP. 
Back-up power 
system 
The proposed data centre includes approximately 70 prime-rated diesel generator sets, 
each with a capacity of 3.1MW.  
The generators are intended to provide resilient backup power to support data hall IT 
systems and associated mechanical and electrical infrastructure, ensuring continuity of 
operations in the event of a grid supply interruption. In addition, a number of smaller 
ancillary generator sets may be installed to service operational and essential services. 
Each generator will be accommodated within a containerised generator enclosure for 
noise attenuation. The generators will operate intermittently and primarily during testing, 
maintenance and emergency scenarios. Regular run testing will be undertaken to 
ensure operational reliability and compliance with manufacturer and regulatory 
requirements. Annual load testing will also be carried out using load banks to simulate 
operating conditions. Load testing activities are typically limited in duration, generally up 
to one hour per generator, and will be managed to minimise off-site impacts. 
[[page 48]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 48 
 
 
The EIS will include a detailed generator testing regime and schedule to assist the EPA 
and DPHI in understanding the frequency, duration and management of testing 
activities. A Back-up Power Report will also accompany the EIS outlining the generator 
configuration, operational parameters and testing regime, including routine run testing 
and annual load bank testing. 
Bushfire The site contains areas mapped as bushfire prone land, including Vegetation Buffer and 
limited areas of Vegetation Category 1 along the interface with the adjoining C2 
Environmental Conservation land. A Bushfire Risk and Impact Assessment (BIA) will be 
prepared to inform the EIS in accordance with the NSW Rural Fire Service Planning for 
Bushfire Protection (2019). 
The BIA will assess the bushfire risk to the proposed development and identify 
appropriate mitigation measures. This will include consideration of building design and 
materials, fire separation, asset protection zones, vegetation management, emergency 
access and the provision of firefighting water. The assessment will also consider the 
operational resilience of the facility and will be prepared in consultation with the NSW 
Rural Fire Service where required. 
Biodiversity The developable area of the site contains no vegetation. A BDAR waiver request, 
prepared by a qualified ecologist, accompanies this Scoping Report (Appendix H) and 
has been submitted to the DPHI to confirm that a BDAR is not required.  
The biodiversity assessments conducted as part of the BDAR waiver request has 
indicated that a BDAR Waiver is able to be granted for the proposed data centre 
development and that the proposed development will not result in impacts on 
biodiversity values.  
The EIS will consider potential indirect impacts on the adjoining C2 Environmental 
Conservation land, including matters such as light spill, stormwater runoff and potential 
overshadowing.  
Hazards and 
risks  
The EIS will demonstrate the development would comply with the relevant aspects of the 
following standards: 
▪ AS/NZS 4681 – Storage and handling of Class 9 (miscellaneous) dangerous goods 
and articles,  
▪ A/S IEC 62619  – Secondary cells and batteries containing alkaline or other non-
acid electrolytes – Safety requirements for secondary lithium cells and batteries, 
for use in industrial applications, and  
▪ FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data  Sheet 5-32 – Data Centres and Related 
Facilities ‒  S 1940 – Storage and handling of flammable and combustible liquids. 
This will be addressed in a Preliminary Hazard Analysis.  
Infrastructure 
Requirements 
and Utilities 
Power and water will be supplied from the approved infrastructure on Lot 305 (NEXTDC 
S4 Phase 1 Data Centre) through the extension of services into Lot 306. The infrastructure 
approved for Lot 305 has been designed and sized to accommodate the servicing 
requirements of the future development on Lot 306 and outlined in Appendix C. 
This includes a new water connection from the approved water storage tanks on Lot 305 
to supply the buildings on Lot 306, together with high voltage power connections from 
the approved substation on Lot 305 to each building. 
Figure 18 and Figure 19 and illustrate the proposed power and water connection routes 
to service the site. Both services will utilise the external connection points approved 
under SSD-63741210, with the internal service extensions from Lot 305 supplying power 
and water to Lot 306. Figure 20 and Figure 21 show the points of entry described above.  
 
[[page 49]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 49 
 
 
 
Power Supply  
Electricity will be supplied from the NEXTDC dedicated substation located on Lot 305, 
which receives power from the Transgrid Sydney West Substation via high-voltage 
underground transmission infrastructure. 
The installed infrastructure provides a total electrical capacity of 500 MVA across the S4 
campus. 
The current allocation of electrical capacity across the campus is: 
The proposed Lot 306 development has an estimated operational power consumption of 
approximately 134.4 MW, which is accommodated within the allocated electrical 
capacity. 
The overall electrical demand across the campus remains within the installed 
transformer capacity and no additional electrical supply upgrades are required during 
the operational stage of the development.  
The proposed allocation of electrical capacity across the campus is 
Development Allocated Capacity  
Lot 305 308 MVA 
Lot 306 (Subject SSDA) 192 MVA 
Total campus capacity  500 MVA 
Water Demand 
Water use across the development comprises industrial cooling water and domestic 
potable water. 
Industrial water will be used primarily for mechanical cooling systems associated with 
the data halls, while potable water will service staff amenities and building facilities. 
Industrial Water Demand 
Industrial cooling water will be supplied via infrastructure located on Lot 305, drawing 
from a combined supply from: 
• Sydney Water, and 
• coNEXA’s Aquanet recycled water network. 
Development Industrial Water Demand Peak Flow  
Lot 305 12,528,000 L/day 145 L/s 
Lot 306 (Subject SSDA) 7,305,120 L/day 85 L/s 
Total campus demand  19,833,120 L/day 229.55 L/s 
Domestic Water Demand 
Domestic water demand has been calculated based on an assumed consumption rate 
of 40 L/person/day for office and staff amenities. 
Potable water will be supplied via the existing Sydney Water main located in Burley Road, 
which currently services the S4 campus. 
Development Domestic Water Demand Peak Flow  
Lot 305 6,680 L/day 7.76 L/s 
Lot 306 (Subject SSDA) 3,600 L/day 5.67 L/s 
Total campus demand  10,280 L/day 7.76 L/s 
The Stage 1 Notice of Requirement for Lot 305, Building C and ancillary buildings has 
been accepted by NEXTDC, providing up to 4.6 ML/day of potable water supply. At this 
stage, NEXTDC does not intend to seek approval to increase the previously approved 
[[page 50]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 50 
 
 
supply of 4.6 ML/day and this application relates only to the sewer discharge from those 
buildings. 
Recycled Water  
NEXTDC is also pursuing a recycled water supply for the S4 development to secure a 
resilient non-potable water source. This approach reduces reliance on Sydney’s potable 
water network, aligns with circular economy objectives, and supports the reliable 
operation of critical digital infrastructure in Western Sydney.  
The recycled water supply is proposed to service the site’s industrial water loads, 
primarily cooling and heat rejection systems, which accounts for the majority of 
operational water demand.  
NEXTDC is committed to reducing its water consumption and is actively working to 
secure commercial agreements with industry trade partners, including;  
▪ Provision of alternate non- potable water supplies for industrial uses including, 
recycled water supplies (coNEXAs Aquanet Network)  
▪ Onsite treatment of industrial water to enhance reuse and reduce sewer discharge 
volumes. 
The implementation of these initiatives will improve NEXTDCs Water Usage Effectiveness 
and reduce the facility’s reliance on the Sydney Waters potable water network. 
In addition, NEXTDC is undertaking potable water network modelling in consultation with 
Sydney Water to assess medium term water demand within the catchment and identify 
any potential surplus capacity within the Sydney Water network. It is anticipated that any 
requirement for additional potable water would be limited to the short term until 
alternative non potable supplies become available. 
Sewer Discharge 
Wastewater generated by the development will consist primarily of domestic 
wastewater associated with staff amenities, with minimal wastewater generated from 
operational processes. 
Based on the hydraulic assessment undertaken as part of the Sydney Water Section 73 
servicing assessment, the estimated wastewater discharge associated with the 
development is as follows: 
Wastewater will discharge from the private sanitary drainage system to the existing 
Sydney Water DN225 sewer main located near the western boundary of the site. 
Hydraulic modelling undertaken for the development has confirmed that the existing 
DN225 sewer main has sufficient capacity to accommodate the proposed wastewater 
flows, with the network operating within acceptable capacity limits.  
Accordingly, no amplification of the sewer network is required to service the 
development at this stage. 
Parameter Sewer Discharge  
Maximum discharge  938.5 kL/day 
Average discharge  797.7 kL/day 
Peak Simultaneous Discharge 21.51 L/s 
The proposed water and wastewater servicing strategy has been developed in 
consultation with Sydney Water and demonstrates that the development can be 
accommodated within the capacity of the existing authority infrastructure servicing the 
S4 campus. 
Infrastructure Adequacy Statement 
The proposed development has been designed to utilise the existing infrastructure 
established for the approved NEXTDC S4 campus, including electrical supply, recycled 
[[page 51]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 51 
 
 
industrial water, potable water and sewer networks. The servicing strategy integrates the 
proposed development on Lot 306 with the existing infrastructure on Lot 305, allowing 
utilities to be distributed across the campus through established connections and 
infrastructure corridors. 
Electrical supply will be provided via the NEXTDC dedicated substation connected to the 
Transgrid Sydney West Substation, with a total available capacity of 500 MVA across the 
campus. The proposed development operates within the allocated electrical capacity 
and does not require additional power supply upgrades. 
Industrial cooling water will be supplied through the coNEXA recycled water network and 
Sydney Water supply infrastructure, while potable water will be sourced from the existing 
Sydney Water main located in Burley Road. Wastewater generated by the development 
will discharge to the existing Sydney Water DN225 sewer main, which has been 
confirmed through hydraulic assessment to have sufficient capacity to accommodate 
the proposed flows. 
Based on the investigations undertaken to date, the proposed development can be 
serviced by the existing and approved infrastructure networks associated with the S4 
campus, and the development is not expected to require significant off-site 
infrastructure upgrades during the operational phase. 
The EIS will outline the infrastructure requirements for the proposal, including electricity, 
water, sewer and communications services. 
Figure 18 Industrial Water Connection from coNEXA recycled water storage (NEXTDC, 2026)  
 
Figure 19 Power connection route from TransGrid  Sydney West substation to Lot 306  (NEXTDC, 2026)  

[[page 52]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 52 
 
 
 
Figure 20 Lot 306 Points of Entry (NEXTDC, 2026)  
 
Figure 21 Lot 305 Points of Entry (NEXTDC, 2026)  

[[page 53]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 53 
 
 
 
  
Community 
Engagement 
An Engagement Outcomes Report will be provided as required by the Industry Standard 
SEARs. The Report will outline the engagement carried out to date, the outcomes of that 
engagement and how it has informed the proposal. The report will provide evidence of a 
transparent and collaborative engagement process. This document will be included in 
the EIS as part of the SSDA. The document will also outline: 
▪ Issues raised by surrounding landowners & stakeholders.  
▪ Project response to issues  
▪ Proposed future community and stakeholder engagement based on the results of 
consultation.  
Social Impact  A Social Impact Assessment (SIA) will be prepared in accordance with the NSW 
Guidelines for Social Impact Assessments. The SIA will address the positive and negative 
impacts associated with the project, as well as the measures to mitigate these impacts.  
ESD An Ecologically Sustainable Development (ESD) Report will be prepared to provide a 
sustainability assessment development in accordance with section 193 of the 
Regulations. The following principles are to be considered:  
▪ Greenhouse gas emissions,  
▪ Building design and layout,  
▪ Embodied emissions,  
▪ Climate risk strategy,  
▪ Operational targets,  
▪ Water sensitive urban design,  
▪ Materiality, and  
▪ Energy consumption.  
The ESD report will provide an assessment of the proposal and demonstrate ways in 
which the development can achieve best practice and compliance with sustainability 
requirements. 
Aboriginal 
Heritage 
Consultation with Aboriginal Community representatives will be conducted and 
assessed in an ACHAR as part of the SSDA. The ACHAR will document the process of 

[[page 54]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 54 
 
 
investigation, Aboriginal community consultation and assessment with regards to 
Aboriginal cultural heritage and Aboriginal archaeology.   
Waste 
Management 
The proposed development is expected to generate waste during the demolition, 
construction, and operation phases. A Waste Management Plan (WMP) will be attained 
to determine the extent of management required and will be in accordance with waste 
regulatory frameworks and legislation. 
Ground and 
Water 
Conditions 
Ground and water conditions, including major earthworks and retaining walls, were 
addressed under the previous subdivision approval A Geotechnical Report will provide 
an assessment of the ground conditions of the site and any risks associated with ground 
stability or proposed excavation. The report will detail the findings from desktop review of 
the site and borehole testing where necessary. The report will recommend appropriate 
temporary and permanent site support and retention measures if required.  
Water 
Management  
An Integrated Water Management Plan will assess stormwater quantity and quality, 
drainage infrastructure, and on-site water management measures, including erosion 
and sediment controls. 
The strategy will be refined through design development, with the EIS addressing 
catchment capacity, potential impacts on the regional basin to the south, and any 
irrigation risks.  
Earthworks Civil plans will be prepared to identify and manage any negative impacts as a result of 
the proposed bulk earthworks. It is expected that cut and fill works will be required across 
the site, the proposed earthworks will be informed by a detailed cut and fill strategy. 
 
  
[[page 55]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Proposed Assessment of Impacts 55 
 
 
7.2 Matters Requiring No Further Assessment in the EIS 
This section of the report identifies the following matters that do not require further assessment in the EIS. 
Each of these matters was considered within the scoping phase but considered unlikely to result in significant 
impacts that warrant further assessment.  
▪ Flooding: The site is not identified within a flood planning area on Council’s flood mapping and is not 
subject to creek or riverine flooding based on previous investigations undertaken for nearby land. 
Previous assessments for the NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (SSD- 63741210) also confirmed that safe 
evacuation is feasible via the M7 Motorway and that pre -emptive evacuation can be implemented 
where necessary. If required, a Flood Emergency Management Plan will be prepared to confirm that the 
site would not become i solated during flood events and that appropriate evacuation arrangements 
can be maintained.  
▪ Non-Aboriginal  Heritage and Archaeology : The site is not located on or nearby to land that is 
identified as containing items of environmental heritage.  The Heritage Impact Statement ( HIS) 
prepared for the NEXTDC S4 Data Centre confirmed that Lot 305 was not located in the vicinity of any 
heritage listed item  and therefore would not impact on the significant of a heritage listed item . The HIS 
also confirmed that due to the site’s disturbed nature, and significant earthworks, that have also been 
carried out on the land subject to this Scoping Repo rt, there was low potential for the land to retain 
historical archaeological relics.  
Therefore, the future development of the land subject to this Scoping Report does not warrant further 
assessment potential to non- Aboriginal heritage and historical archaeology.  
[[page 56]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)   Conclusion 56 
 
 
8 Conclusion 
This Scoping Report has outlined preliminary information regarding the proposed development of a data 
centre. The report has outlined preliminary information regarding the site and proposal, identified the relevant 
strategic and statutory context, summarised the approach to engagement with stakeholders and, identified 
the scale and nature of the impacts of the project.  
The proposal is declared SSD under Section 25, Schedule 1 of Planning Systems SEPP. We trust that the 
information detailed in this Scoping Report is sufficient to enable the Secretary to issue SEARs for the 
preparation of an EIS.
[[page 57]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    57 
 
 
A.1 Appendix A – Concept Architectural Design Report 
  
[[page 58]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    58 
 
 
A.2 Appendix B – Preliminary Viewpoint Locations 
  
[[page 59]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    59 
 
 
A.3 Appendix C – Infrastructure Servicing Strategy 
  
[[page 60]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    60 
 
 
A.4 Appendix D – Recycled Water Memo 
  
[[page 61]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    61 
 
 
A.5 Appendix E – Water Technical Memorandum 
  
[[page 62]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    62 
 
 
A.6 Appendix F – Near Neighbour Letter 
  
[[page 63]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    63 
 
 
A.7 Appendix G – ACHAR Methodology and Background 
Information 
  
[[page 64]]
 
Scoping Report | NEXTDC S4 Data Centre (Phase 2)    64 
 
 
A.8 Appendix H – BDAR Waiver Request 
 