[[page 1]]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping 
Report 
NEXTDC S7 Data Centr e 
1 Kangaroo Avenue  
Eastern Creek  
 

[[page 2]]
 
Urbis staff responsible for this report were: 
Director Jennifer Cooper  
Associate Director Christopher Croucamp 
Senior Consultant Sam Wilson 
Report Number Final 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledgment of Country 
Urbis acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands we operate on. 
We recognise that First Nations sovereignty was never ceded and respect First Nations peoples continuing 
connection to these lands, waterways and ecosystems for over 60,000 years. 
We pay our respects to First Nations Elders, past and present. 
 
Urbis is committed to incorporating our respect for First Nations cultures, peoples and storytelling in our work 
across the Country. We are proud to have partnered with Darug Nation artist, Hayley Pigram, and to profile her 
artwork - Sacred River Dreaming. 
 
 
The river is the symbol of the Dreaming 
and the journey of life. The circles and 
lines represent people meeting and 
connections across time and space. When 
we are working in different places, we can 
still be connected and work towards the 
same goal. 
All information supplied to Urbis in order to conduct this research has been treated in the strictest confidence.  
It shall only be used in this context and shall not be made available to third parties without client authorisation.  
Confidential information has been stored securely and data provided by respondents, as well as their identity, has been 
treated in the strictest confidence and all assurance given to respondents have been and shall be fulfilled. 
 
 
© Urbis Ltd 
50 105 256 228 
 
All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced without prior permission. 
You must read the important disclaimer appearing within the body of this report. 
 
urbis.com.au 

[[page 3]]
Contents 
Glossary and Abbreviations 5 
1 Introduction 7 
1.1 Applicant Details 7 
1.2 Project Overview 8 
2 Project Background 11 
2.1 Site and Consent History 11 
2.2 Project Rationale 14 
3 Strategic Context 16 
3.1 Key Features 16 
3.2 Project Justification 20 
3.3 Cumulative Impacts 23 
4 Project 26 
4.1 Proposed Development 26 
4.2 Detailed Development Description 31 
4.2.1 Project Area 31 
4.2.2 Site Preparation Works 33 
4.2.3 Access and Car Parking 33 
4.2.4 Landscaping 34 
4.2.5 Vegetation 34 
4.2.6 Infrastructure, Servicing and Plant 
Equipment 35 
4.2.7 Development Timing 37 
4.3 Feasible Alternatives 38 
5 Statutory Context 39 
5.1 Statutory Requirements 39 
5.2 Pre-Conditions 41 
5.3 Mandatory Considerations 42 
6 Community Engagement 47 
6.1 Engagement Carried Out 47 
6.2 Future Engagement to be Carried out by the 
Applicant 47 
7 Proposed Assessment of Impacts 49 
7.1 Matters Requiring Further Assessment in the 
EIS 49 
7.2 Matters Requiring No Further Assessment in 
the EIS 54 
8 Conclusion 55 
Appendix A Concept Architectural Plans 56 
Appendix B Design Report 57 
Appendix C Indicative Renders 58 
Appendix D Acid Sulfate Soils Risk 
Assessment 59 
Appendix E Preliminary VIA Advice 60 
Appendix F Technical Note -Infrastructure 
Servicing, and Plant Equipment 61 
Appendix G SEARs Technical Assessment 
Methodology 62 
 
Figures  
Figure 1 Locality Map .................................................................. 10 
Figure 2 Aerial Photograph.................................................... 10 
Figure 3 Original Subdivision Plan .................................... 13 
Figure 4 Modified Subdivision Plan .................................. 13 
Figure 5 Modified Civil Plan (pending approval).... 14 
Figure 6 Local Context .............................................................. 16 
Figure 7 Site Photos ..................................................................... 17 
Figure 8 Surrounding Development Approvals Map
 ................................................................................................................ 24 
Figure 9 Indicative Render showing the view 
toward the site from the north-east along 
Honeycomb Drive. ...................................................................... 28 
Figure 10 Indicative Render showing the view 
toward the site from the southern boundary of the 
site. ....................................................................................................... 28 
Figure 11 Indicative Render showing the view 
toward the site from the north west including the 
approved retaining wall configuration. ....................... 29 
Figure 12 Indicative Render showing the view 
toward the site from the south west from future 
Archibold Road. ........................................................................... 29 
Figure 13 Indicative Render showing the birds eye 
view of eastern boundary. .................................................... 30 
Figure 14 Proposed Subdivision Plan ............................... 31 
Figure 15 Proposed Site Plan ................................................ 32 
Figure 16 Proposed Section .................................................. 32 
Figure 17 Proposed Axonometric Render..................... 33 
[[page 4]]
Figure 18 Proposed Circulation .......................................... 34 
Figure 19 Concept Schematic – Electrical Services
 ................................................................................................................ 35 
Figure 20 Transmission Lines (not part of SSDA) .. 36 
 
Tables 
Table 1 Applicant Details .......................................................... 7 
Table 2 Site and Project Overview ...................................... 8 
Table 3 Previous Development Consents ..................... 11 
Table 4 Project Rationale ........................................................ 14 
Table 5 Key Features of Site and Locality ..................... 18 
Table 6 Strategic Context ..................................................... 20 
Table 7 Nearby Projects .......................................................... 23 
Table 8 Summary of Project ............................................... 26 
Table 9 Preliminary Construction Schedule ............. 37 
Table 10 Analysis of Feasible Alternatives .................. 38 
Table 11 Identification of Statutory Requirements for 
the Project ....................................................................................... 39 
Table 12 Pre-Conditions ........................................................... 41 
Table 13 Mandatory Considerations .............................. 42 
Table 14 Agency Engagement ............................................47 
Table 15 Matters requiring assessment in the EIS . 49 
[[page 5]]
Glossary and Abbreviations  
Reference Description 
ACHAR Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Assessment Report 
AIA Arboricultural Impact Assessment  
AHIP Aboriginal Heritage Impact Permit  
AQIA Air Quality Impact Assessment 
ASS Acid Sulfate Soils  
BC Act Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 
B&C SEPP State Environmental Planning Policy (Biodiversity and Conservation) 2021 
BC Reg Biodiversity Conservation Regulation 2017 
BDAR Biodiversity Development Assessment Report 
BDCP2015 Blacktown Development Control Plan 2015 
BLEP2015 Blacktown Local Environmental Plan 2015 
BMP Biodiversity Management Plan 
DCP Development Control Plan 
DDP Dam Dewatering Plan 
DPHI Department of Planning, Housing and Infrastructure  
DSI Detailed Site Investigation 
ECPP Stage 3 Eastern Creek Precinct Plan 
EIS Environmental Impact Statement 
EPL Environmental Protection Licence  
EP&A Act Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 
EP&A Regulation Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 
EPBC Act  Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 
EPA Environmental Protection Authority  
ESD Ecologically Sustainable Design  
HAZMAT Hazardous Materials   
HPC Housing and Productivity Contributions 
I&E SEPP State Environmental Planning Policy (Industry and Employment) 2021 
LEC Land and Environment Court  
LEP Local Environmental Plan 
MNES Matters of National Environmental Significance  
[[page 6]]
Reference Description 
NVIA Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment  
PoEO Act Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1997 
Planning Systems 
SEPP 
State Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021 Planning Systems 
PMF Probable Maximum Flood  
RAP Remediation Action Plan  
R&H SEPP State Environmental Planning Policy (Resilience and Hazards) 2021 
REAP Registered Environmental Assessment Planner  
RFS New South Wales Rural Fire Services  
Sustainable 
Buildings SEPP 
State Environmental Planning Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 2022 
SDRP State Design Review Panel 
SEARs Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
SEPP State Environmental Planning Policy  
SIA Social Impact Assessment  
Site The site is legally described as follows:  
▪ Lot 13 in Deposited Plan 1302361, and  
▪ Lot 7 in Deposited Plan 1225803.  
SMP Salinity Management Plan 
SMS Stormwater Management Strategy  
SSD State Significant Development  
SSDA State Significant Development Application  
SWMP Stormwater Management Plan  
T&I SEPP State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021 
TPP Tree Protection Plan  
VIA Visual Impact Assessment  
WPC SEPP State Environmental Planning Policy (Precincts—Western Parkland City) 2021 
 
[[page 7]]
1 Introduction 
This Scoping Report has been prepared on behalf of NEXTDC (the Applicant) to facilitate the preparation of 
project-specific Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements (SEARs) for a proposed data centre at 1 
Kangaroo Avenue, Eastern Creek (the site). The SEARs will guide the preparation of an Environmental Impact 
Statement (EIS) that will accompany a State Significant Development Application (SSDA) for assessment by 
the Department of Planning, Housing and Infrastructure (DPHI). 
The proposal relates to a data centre development that has a total power consumption exceeding 15 
megawatts and is therefore classified as State Significant Development (SSD) pursuant to Section 25 of 
Schedule 1 of State Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021 (Planning Systems SEPP). 
Following preliminary consultation with DPHI, it was determined that the project requires a Scoping Report to 
support the issue of the Project-Specific SEARs.  
The purpose of this report is to: 
▪ Describe the project in simple terms,  
▪ Analyse the feasible alternatives considered and identify the alternatives that will be investigated 
further in the EIS,  
▪ Indicate early community views on the project and identify what engagement will be carried out during 
the preparation of the EIS, and  
▪ Identify the key matters requiring further assessment in the EIS and the proposed approach to 
assessing each of these matters.  
This Scoping Report is supported by the following documents: 
▪ Appendix A: Concept Architectural Plans  
▪ Appendix B: Design Report  
▪ Appendix C: Indicative Renders  
▪ Appendix D: Acid Sulfate Soils Risk Assessment  
▪ Appendix E: Preliminary VIA Advice  
▪ Appendix F: Technical Note -Infrastructure Servicing, and Plant Equipment  
▪ Appendix G: SEARs Technical Assessment Methodology  
1.1 Applicant Details 
The applicant details for the proposed development are listed in the following table. 
Table 1 Applicant Details  
Proponent Proponent name 
Full name(s)  NEXTDC Limited c/o Urbis Ltd  
Postal Address Level 8/123 Pitt Street, Sydney NSW 2000 
ABN 35 143 582 521  
Nominated Contact Christopher Croucamp – Associate Director (Urbis)  
 
  
[[page 8]]
1.2 Project Overview 
Table 2 Site and Project Overview  
Matter Description 
Country Dharug Country 
Street Address 1 Kangaroo Avenue, Eastern Creek  
Legal 
Description 
▪ Lot 13 in Deposited Plan 1302 361, and  
▪ Lot 7 in Deposited Plan 1225803.  
Site Area The site is irregular in shape and has a total area of approximately 385,734m2.  
Developable 
Area 
The developable area comprises approximately 255,137 m2. 
LGA  Blacktown City Council  
Existing 
Development 
The site comprises predominantly vacant land with areas of remnant vegetation located 
in the south-eastern corner. The north-eastern portion of the site (Lot 7 in DP1225803) 
benefits from an existing approval for industrial use, being a concrete and asphalt 
production facility. The area largely consists of unpaved hardstand areas and remnant 
vegetation.  
Locality 
Description 
The site is in the south-western part of the Blacktown local government area (LGA), 
approximately 20 kilometres west of Parramatta CBD and 35 kilometres west of the Sydney 
CBD. It is situated within the Western Sydney Employment Area (WSEA) which extends 
from Greystanes in the east to Mamre Road in the south-west, including Huntingwood, 
Eastern Creek and Erskine Park.  
The M4 Motorway is located to the north, while the M7 Westlink Motorway is located further 
east. The site has direct frontage to Honeycomb Drive, providing connection to 
Wonderland Drive to the east and the future Archbold Road extension to the west. The 
closest bus stops are located on Wonderland Drive and provide services to Blacktown and 
Mount Druitt via Route 723.  
The surrounding land uses are characterised as follows:  
▪ North: The Bingo Eastern Creek Recycling Ecology Park is immediately north of 
Honeycomb Drive extension. The M4 Motorway and Minchinbury residential area are 
further north. The closest residential receiver is approximately one kilometre from the 
site.  
▪ East: Industrial development associated with the Frasers Precinct is located east of 
Lot 7 and include s warehouse facilities currently occupied by FDM Warehousing, 
Multipack-LJM and Rhino -Rack.  
▪ West: Land to the west is predominantly cleared and includes a transmission 
easement that provides an opportunity for a direct power supply to the site and 
future data centre. The future Archbold Road alignment also runs along the western 
boundary of the site. T he Erskine Park residential area lies further west, with the 
nearest residential receiver approximately 900 metres from the site.   
▪ South: Land to the south comprises vacant land which includes patches  of native 
vegetation and stormwater infrastructure along the natural watercourse  which is to 
be dedicated to Blacktown City Council.  
A locality map showing the site in its regional context is provided at Figure 1. An aerial 
photograph of the site and immediately surrounding land is provided at Figure 2. 
[[page 9]]
Matter Description 
The Project 
Project Name NEXTDC S7 Sydney Data Centre  
Project 
Objectives  
▪ Improve the accessibility and supply of critical digital storage infrastructure in 
Eastern Creek, which is an emerging employment precinct,  
▪ Encourage employment -generating opportunities and support long term economic 
sustainability, consistent with the site’s industrial zoning and the strategic 
importance of industrial land within the WSEA,  
▪ Support the continued growth of the WSEA as a major hub of employment activity 
through the provision of key digital infrastructure,  
▪ Attract knowledge -based industries and businesses, including in the health and 
education sectors, by locating high -quality digital infrastructure in proximity to key 
institutions,  
▪ Avoid unacceptable environmental and amenity impacts and provide ongoing 
compliance with operational legislative requirements,  
▪ Retain key existing environmental features of the site and coordinate the design with 
surrounding approvals, and  
▪ Construct and operate the data centre in a sensitive and responsible manner with 
particular regard to the health and safety of staff and the environment.   
Development 
Stages  
▪ Stage 1: Site establishment   
▪ Stage 2: Remediation (if required),  
▪ Stage 3: Construction, and  
▪ Stage 4: Operation.  
 
  
[[page 10]]
Figure 1 Locality Map  
 
Source: Urbis, 202 6 
Figure 2 Aerial Photo graph 
 
Source: Urbis, 202 6 

[[page 11]]
2 Project Background 
2.1 Site and Consent History 
The relevant development consents (including approved/pending modifications) are summarised in Table 3.  
Table 3 Previous Development Consents   
DA Number Description Status Relevance to Proposed 
SSDA  
Lot 13 in Deposited Plan 1302361  
DA-21-01557 (as 
modified) 
Blacktown City Council 
approved an eight-lot 
industrial subdivision 
including bulk earthworks, 
pad sites, retaining walls, 
Honeycomb Drive, 
stormwater infrastructure and 
landscaping (refer Figure 3). 
The approval was amended 
via MOD-23-00638 to provide 
for staging through the 
creation of super-lots (refer 
Figure 4).  
A separate modification 
application (MOD-23-00703) 
for the regional stormwater 
basin, level refinements and 
vegetation removal (refer 
Figure 5) remains under 
assessment by Council. 
Approved 26 August 2022 
Approved 7 March 2024 
(MOD-23-00638), pending 
approval (MOD-23000703) 
The original approval 
established the 
industrial development 
pads, servicing and site 
access. 
The approved 
modification defined 
the lot configuration 
and developable area. 
The pending 
modification seeks to 
deliver regional 
stormwater 
infrastructure and final 
earthworks levels. 
MP06_0139 (as 
modified on 
multiple 
occasions) 
The original approval granted 
consent for the Genesis Xero 
Waste Management Facility, 
including a resource recovery 
facility and non-putrescible 
landfill with a material 
handling capacity of 700 
tonnes per annum. 
Multiple modifications have 
since been issued to facilitate 
changes to the approved site 
operations. 
Approved 22 November 2009 
Modified 30 September 2010, 
9 November 2010, 5 
December 2011, 14 December 
2013, 17 March 2016, 29 April 
2020, 3 March 2021, 11 March 
2022, 30 August 2022, 11 
October 2022, 27 October 
2022, 1 May 2024, 18 October 
2024, 30 April 2025 and 26 
November 2025 
The site is within the 
Consent Area (120 
hectares) of 
MP06_0139, however, it 
does not form part of 
the Operational Area 
(65.99 hectares) which 
includes the landfill void 
and resource recovery 
activities to its west. 
Lot 7 in Deposited Plan 1225803  
MP06_0225 Subdivision, bulk earthworks 
and industrial operations  
including asphalt and 
concrete production facilities  
Approved 2010 Established surrounding 
industrial context and 
servicing framework 
[[page 12]]
The approved industrial subdivision which created Lot 13 (DA-21-01557, as modified) provides for the delivery 
of serviced industrial land which can accommodate a data centre development. The pending modification 
(MOD-23-00703) seeks to deliver a regional stormwater management system (and associated biodiversity 
impacts) in collaboration with Blacktown City Council. The final detailed design issues are being resolved to 
enable approval of the modified layout in early March 2026 (pending Council’s final assessment).   
Modification 9 to MP06_0139 was approved 30 April 2025 and included changes to the original site 
description based on the above subdivision approval. While the developable area remains within the Consent 
Area (120 hectares) of MP06_0139, the following matters are relevant: 
▪ Lot 13 does not form part of the Operational Area as shown with the blue line of the current approval.  
▪ Lot 13 does not appear to be subject to environment protection licenses issued by the NSW Environment 
Protection Authority (refer pages 14 -15 of the Assessment Report  for Modification 9 ). 
▪ The stormwater management requirements have been resolved through the subdivision approval 
issued by Blacktown City Council or will be resolved via the pending modification.  
▪ The consent conditions do not appear to include any matters which would create conflicts with any 
future SSDA approval on Lot 13.  However, if required, MP06_0139 could be modified to remove Lot 13 from 
the current Consent boundary as shown within the red line of the current approval.  
▪ Consideration will be given to the potential cumulative impacts of the proposed data centre and the 
activities on the adjoining land within the Operational Area of MP06_ 0139 (refer Section 3.3). 
The developable area also includes additional land to the north-east (Lot 7) which did not form part of the 
detailed assessment undertaken in association with the industrial subdivision. Further assessment of the 
potential environmental impacts associated with this land will be required, including its key site features and 
former land use activities, eg Aboriginal cultural heritage, biodiversity, site contamination/remediation, etc.  
[[page 13]]
Figure 3 Original Subdivision Plan  
 
Source: Land Partners, 2019  
Figure 4 Modified Subdivision Plan  
 
Source: Land Partners, 2023  

[[page 14]]
Figure 5 Modified Civil Plan (pending approval)  
 
Source: AT&L, 2023  
2.2 Project Rationale 
The rationale for the project including need and site selection is described in Table 4 below. 
Table 4 Project Rationale  
Project Detail Commentary 
Project Need ▪ Supports the NSW Government’s ambition to be a leading digital economy 
in the Asia-Pacific region ,  
▪ Improves the national performance of data networks available for the 
purposes of artificial intelligence, automation, analytics and security,  
▪ Generates direct employment in construction, operations, and 
maintenance, as well as indirect jobs in technology, engineering, and 
security, 
▪ Reduces reliance on overseas facilities , strengthening local infrastructure 
that directly contributes to the digital economy,  
▪ Improves the resilience and reliability of digital infrastructure during 
network disruptions or failures , and  
▪ Encourages global investment in the growing industrial precincts of NSW  
Site Selection The selection of the site is based on the following criteria established by the 
applicant–  
▪ Within the Sydney basin ,  
[[page 15]]
Project Detail Commentary 
▪ Close to key customers , 
▪ Within a suitably sized and serviced parcel of land , 
▪ Close to key digital (optic fibre) backbones , 
▪ Within proximity to travel and transport networks for operational staff , 
▪ In a location with high resilience and lower sensitivity to amenity impacts , 
▪ Close to the TransGrid Sydney West substation for power supply , 
▪ In a geotechnically stable location , and  
▪ In an area less susceptible to natural disasters or other shocks or stresses 
such as terrorism.  
Several locations across Sydney and Western Sydney were assessed. The 
assessed sites were deemed unsuitable, whilst others were shortlisted for 
further assessment. The selected site was deemed appropriate based on the 
abovementioned criteria. Additionally, the site is located within a growing 
industrial precinct that is within direct proximity to established transport 
networks, water supply and electrical infrastructure.   
Development required for 
the project but would be 
subject to a separate 
assessment. 
▪ External transmission line connecting the site to the TransGrid Sydney 
West substation for po wer supply, to be undertaken and approved by 
TransGrid under its own regulatory framework ,  
▪ Approval of MOD-23-00703 which will establish new site levels, amended 
retaining walls  and stormwater infrastructure , and  
▪ Connection or alteration to the existin g water, sewer,  and 
telecommunications infrastructure  in the area.  
[[page 16]]
3 Strategic Context 
3.1 Key Features 
The site occupies a strategic position within the WSEA, an established and emerging hub for data centre 
development in Western Sydney. The local context is identified in Figure 6, and photographs of the existing 
site conditions are provided in Figure 7.  
Figure 6 Local Context  
 
Source: Urbis, 2026 

[[page 17]]
Figure 7 Site Photos  
  
Picture 1 Northeast ern corner of site from Honeycomb Drive  
Source: Google Maps , 2026  
Picture 2 Northwest corner of site from Honeycomb Drive  
Source: Google Maps , 2026 
  
Picture 3 Central section of site, facing south  
Source: Abel Ecology , 2021  
Picture 4 Central north section of site, facing Lot 7  
Source: Abel Ecology,  2021  
  
Picture 5 Central section of site, facing south  
Source: Abel Ecology , 2021  
Picture 6 Central north section of site, facing Lot 7  
Source: Abel Ecology, 2021 
 
  

[[page 18]]
The key features of the site which have the potential to impact or be impacted by the proposed development 
are summarised in the table below. 
Table 5 Key Features of Site and Locality  
Descriptor Site Detail 
Land 
Configuration 
The subject site is an irregular shaped allotment with a total approximate area of 
385,734m2. It comprises two lot parcels, being Lot 13 in Deposited Plan 1302361 and Lot 7 
in Deposited Plan 1225803.  
The developable area is approximately 255,137m2. It excludes 69,216m2 in the southern 
portion of the site which will accommodate a regional stormwater detention basin. It 
also excludes 54,727m2 within the northwestern panhandle, 5,317m2 reserved for the 
future Archbold Road extension, and 1,337m2 allocated for a future access road to the 
southern portion of the site.  
The site currently falls from approximately RL80.00 at the northern boundary to 
between RL 60.00 and RL 55.00 at the southern boundary, representing an overall 
change in elevation up approximately 25 metres. DA-21-01557 includes approval for a 
substantial retaining wall in the southern part of the site, accommodating an 
approximate level change of 15 metres. This approval is currently subject to 
modification under MOD-23-00703 for minor layout amendments.  
Site Access and 
Road Network 
Vehicle access is provided via Honeycomb Drive along the northern boundary of the 
site. The proposal provides four vehicle entry points: one to service direct access to the 
substation, one for staff vehicles and a truck ingress and egress crossover to ensure 
circulation in a forward-facing direction.   
The future Archbold Road extension is identified as a Proposed Road on the Transport 
and Arterial Road Infrastructure Plan Map and may provide an additional connection to 
the site. Any future connection will be subject to further consideration once staging and 
delivery timeframes are confirmed. 
Easements and 
Covenants 
The site is subject to the following easements and covenants:  
Lot 13 in Deposited Plan 1302361 
▪ Right of carriageway 21 metres wide and variable width (DP1145808) in the north -
eastern part of the site (H) , 
▪ Right of carriageway and easement for services 12.19 metres wide (DP262213) in 
the north-western corner adjacent to Archbold Road (L) , 
▪ Easement for services 2.5 metres, 5 metres and variable width (DP1145808) in an 
east-west direction along the front boundary of the site (M) , 
▪ Right of carriageway 23 metres and 30 metres wide (DP1145808) along the full 
width of the site to the north (N) , 
▪ Right of carriageway 30 metres wide (DP1145808) along the western boundary of 
the site from Archbold Road (P) , and  
▪ Right of access 4 metres, 9 metres and variable width (vide 1169392) in an east -
west direction along the front boundary of the site and north -south through the 
western and central parts of the site (R)(R2)(R3).  
Lot 7 in Deposited Plan 1225803 
▪ Right of carriageway over the eastern part of the site (D227638) (GG ), 
▪ Easement for services 4 metres wide and of variable width (AC762292) & 
(AC762293) over the eastern part of the site (HH ), and  
▪ Easement to drain water over the whole of the lot (W) .  
[[page 19]]
Descriptor Site Detail 
Services & Utilities Power 
The TransGrid Sydney West 330/132kV Substation is located approximately one 
kilometre to the south of the site. A transmission easement immediately to the west 
provides a direct connection opportunity, enabling power to be supplied via existing 
infrastructure from day one. 
Water 
The site has access to existing water servicing infrastructure. From commencement, 
the development will utilise available infrastructure as required, while a recycled water 
solution is actively being explored in collaboration with Sydney Water and Conexa to 
support the site’s long term operational water strategy. 
Transport 
Infrastructure 
The site is well-serviced by public and private transport routes. The M4 Motorway is 
located to the north, while the M7 Westlink Motorway is located further east. The site has 
a direct frontage to Honeycomb Drive which links to Wonderland Drive to the east and 
the future Archbold Road extension to the west. The closest bus stops are on 
Wonderland Drive, providing services to Blacktown and Mount Druitt via Route 723.  
Acid Sulfate Soils The site is not within an area of known acid sulfate soil occurrence. No indicators of 
acid sulfate soils were observed during the field investigations undertaken for previous 
applications, including DA-21-01557. 
Contamination Previous contamination investigations for Lot 13 identified contaminants at 
concentrations suitable for commercial and industrial land uses. Lot 7 was historically 
used as a concrete and asphalt plant and will require further investigation to confirm 
contamination risks.  
Salinity The site is within an area of moderate salinity potential.  
Stormwater and 
Flooding 
The site is not located within a flood planning area or between the flood planning area 
and Probably Maximum Flood (PMF) as per Council’s Flooding Map. Flood modelling 
undertaken for DA-21-01557 confirmed creek flood levels are at least 2 metres below 
the proposed finished site levels, and Lot 7 is also outside mapped flood-prone land.  
Bushfire Prone 
Land 
The site is partially mapped as bushfire prone land, including areas of Vegetation 
Category 3 and Vegetation Buffer within the southern portion of the site, affecting 
approximately half of the development footprint. The proposal includes removal of 
remnant vegetation in this area, reducing potential bushfire risk.  
Biodiversity and 
Vegetation 
Lot 13 contains areas mapped on the Biodiversity Values Map in the south-eastern 
portion of the site. Vegetation within this area is proposed to be removed under 
Modification Application MOD-23-00703 and does not form part of the works assessed 
in this EIS. 
Lot 7 is not mapped on the Biodiversity Values Map, however, it contains vegetation 
that is proposed for removal.  
Aboriginal 
Heritage 
The site lies within an area of potential archaeological sensitivity.  Previous 
investigations identified a low-significance Aboriginal archaeological item in the 
south-eastern corner.  
European 
Heritage 
There are no items of local or State heritage significance situated on the site, nor is the 
site located within a Heritage Conservation Area.  
Riparian Corridor  The site includes a mapped riparian corridor in the southern section, which traverses 
the bioretention basin and contains native vegetation. The proposed data centre 
footprint does not encroach upon or overlap with this corridor. Any works or 
[[page 20]]
Descriptor Site Detail 
amendments associated with MOD-23-00703 will be assessed and approved 
independently of this SSDA.  
Voluntary 
Planning 
Agreement  
Lot 7 formed part of the Hanson Concrete and Asphalt Facility and was subject to a 
VPA requiring contributions to the M7 and regional road network, development 
contributions, internal roads, stormwater works and a detention basin. These 
obligations are und erstood to have been satisfied.  
Lot 13 is subject to VPAs relating to regional transport infrastructure and the delivery 
of stormwater infrastructure, including a detention basin, bioretention basin, GPT and 
drainage line. This infrastructure area is anticipated to be subject to a Works -in-Kind 
or acquisition arrangement following determination of MOD-23-00703.  
3.2 Project Justification 
Table 6 Strategic Context  
Plan  Detail 
Draft Sydney Plan  The draft Sydney Plan is the NSW Government’s long -term strategic framework 
guiding Sydney’s growth to 2056. The Plan emphasises transport -oriented 
development and the co -location of jobs, services and housing to reduce travel 
times and support local commu nities. The site is within identified employment 
lands in Western Sydney, a region that contributes approximately $79 billion to 
Sydney’s economy through manufacturing, construction, warehousing, transport 
and logistics.  The proposed data centre aligns wit h the following objectives of the 
draft Plan: 
▪ Response 4: Grow well -located jobs  
The development locates high -value digital infrastructure near major 
transport corridors, freight networks and Western Sydney International 
Airport, supporting employment clusters and efficient access for workers and 
service providers.  
▪ Response 5: Align infrastructure with planned growth  
Data centres rely on high -capacity power, fibre connectivity and reliable 
servicing already available or planned in the precinct, supporting orderly 
development and infrastructure investment sequencing.  
▪ Response 8: Secure an ongoing pipeline of productive industrial lands  
By accommodating a data centre within a planned employment area, the 
proposal supports the retention, diversification and long -term viability of 
industrial land  uses within Western Sydney . 
Greater Sydney 
Region Plan – A 
Metropolis of Three 
Cities 
The Greater Sydney Region Plan: A Metropolis of Three Cities – connecting 
people (Region Plan) provides the overarching framework for growth in Sydney 
over a 20-year period with a 40 -year vision. The site is within the Central River 
City and the Western Sydney Employment Area, a n industrial and employment 
precinct with strong transport connections. The proposed data centre is 
consistent with the following objectives:  
▪ Objective 1. Infrastructure supports the three cities  
A data centre proposal will improve accessibility and supply of critical new 
digital storage infrastructure in Eastern Creek which is an emerging 
employment precinct.  
[[page 21]]
Plan  Detail 
▪ Objective 7. Jobs and skills for the city  
The proposal would encourage employment -generating opportunities and 
economic prosperity, which has positive influences on the wider locality. The 
site is zoned for industrial purposes. Industrial zoned land is identified as vital 
in providing increased em ployment opportunities within the Central River 
City.  
▪ Objective 24. Economic sectors are targeted for success  
The proposal aligns with the vision of the objective as it will support the 
continued growth of the WSEA as a hub of employment activity through the 
co-location of key digital infrastructure near to innovative technology 
businesses. 
Our Greater Sydney 
2056: Central City 
District Plan  
 
Our Greater Sydney 2056: District Plan – connecting communities  (‘the District 
Plan’) is a 20-year plan to implement the Region Plan.  The Plan anticipates 
significant growth in Blacktown and provides for a  transition from traditional 
industry to advanced manufacturing . The proposal supports this growth through 
co-location of high -capacity digital infrastructure with major technology and 
employment uses in the WSEA. The proposed data centre aligns with following 
key planning priorities of the District Plan:  
▪ Planning Priority C1 – Planning for a city supported by infrastructure  
Provides critical digital infrastructure supporting nearby employment, health 
and education uses, including research, innovation and service delivery.  
▪ Planning Priority C 10 - Growing investment, business opportunities and 
jobs in strategic centres  
Supports investment and employment within the Greater Penrith to Eastern 
Creek Growth Area by introducing a compatible employment -generating use 
that strengthens business activity in the locality.  
Blacktown Local 
Strategic Planning 
Statement 2020 
The Blacktown Local Strategic Planning Statement 2020 (LSPS) seeks to implement 
the Region Plan and District Plan, setting a 20-year vision. The site is in the Mount 
Druitt Precinct and WSEA, with development to increase employment, industry and 
services and support industrial, distribution and warehousing activities. The 
proposal aligns with the following planning priorities: 
▪ Planning Priority 1 - Planning for a city supported by infrastructure  
The site is well connected to the regional road network at the intersection of 
the M4 Motorway, Westlink M7 and Wallgrove Road. The proposal utilises 
existing and planned infrastructure, including anticipated Archbold Road 
upgrades, and provides digital in frastructure supporting growth in Eastern 
Creek.   
▪ Planning Priority 9 - Maximising opportunities to attract advanced 
manufacturing and innovation in industrial and urban services land  
The proposal contribute s to growing investment, business opportunities and 
job creation in the emerging industry cluster at Eastern Creek. The proposed 
data centre will create additional jobs in the region and promote the ongoing 
growth of innovative technologies in the job marke t of the future . 
▪ Planning Priority 10 - Growing targeted industry sectors  
The proposal would attract knowledge-based industries and businesses 
including in the health and education sectors by collocating digital 
infrastructure close to these key institutions.   
[[page 22]]
Plan  Detail 
Employment Lands 
Precinct Plan – 
Eastern Creek 
Precinct Plan  
The Employment Lands Precinct Plan – Eastern Creek Precinct (the Precinct Plan) 
seeks to support economic growth and employment in Central Western Sydney 
through coordinated infrastructure, sustainable development and high-quality 
industrial environments, while protecting environmental and heritage values and 
ensuring efficient servicing and transport networks.  
The proposed data centre is consistent with the vision of the Precinct Plan: 
▪ Objective 1.5.2(a) – Promote economic growth and employment 
opportunities within Central Western Sydney  
Provides high -value digital infrastructure that attracts technology investment 
and generates employment, including approximately 425 full-time 
equivalent jobs and around 2,000 construction  jobs. 
▪ Objective 1.5.2.(b) - Ensure the orderly provision of infrastructure and 
services 
Locates digital infrastructure adjacent to the M4 –M7 interchange and 
planned road upgrades, with immediate access to key services including 
electricity supply, water infrastructure and servicing easements .  
Industrial Lands 
Action Plan  
The NSW Industrial Lands Action Plan (the Action Plan) is a state government 
framework designed to protect, manage and grow industrial land so it can support 
economic activity, housing delivery and infrastructure investment over the long 
term. Its focus is on ensuring NSW has the right industrial land, in the right places, 
at the right time. The plan responds to increasing pressure on industrial land from 
population growth, housing demand and land use change, particularly in Greater 
Sydney. It recognises industrial land as critical infrastructure that underpins freight, 
logistics, manufacturing, construction and services. The proposal aligns with the 
following actions outlined in the Action Plan:  
▪ Action 2 – Planning policy interventions to support the intensification of 
state or regionally significant industrial lands  
The site is strategically located within an established industrial precinct, 
supported by an existing planning framework that encourages the 
intensification of uses. The proposal presents an opportunity to leverage 
well-serviced industrial land and capitalise on the area’s active development 
pipeline. 
▪ Action 3 – Statewide approach for an industrial lands supply pipeline  
The WSEA is identified as  a key area of the industrial lands required to 
establish greater supply of industrial projects for the state development 
pipeline. The  development-ready land available at the site will contribute to a 
quicker timeline for the data centre development, actioning  the goals set in 
place by the NSW government  
▪ Action 4 – Employment Land Development Program to manage supply and 
coordinate infrastructure investment  
The construction and operation of the proposed data centre will generate 
significant employment opportunities aligned with the land development 
program. Supported by substantial investment in the WSEA, the scale, EDC 
and employment opportunities included in the proposal will strengthen future 
investment prospects . 
 
 
[[page 23]]
3.3 Cumulative Impacts 
Approved and likely future developments which may be relevant in the cumulative impact assessment of the 
proposal are summarised in the following table. 
Table 7 Nearby Projects  
SSDA Reference  Development Description Current Status Distance 
from 
subject 
site  
SSD- 77020757 Oakdale East Industrial Estate, Precinct 2 – Proposed 
staged construction of four warehouse and distribution 
centres at 2-10 Old Wallgrove Road, Horsley Park.  
Under 
assessment  
2.15km  
SSD-101067971 Project Atlas Data Centre Eastern Creek - Demolition of 
existing buildings and construction/operation of a 
500MVA data centre at 10 Roberts Road, including 
offsite enabling infrastructure. 
Preparation of 
SEARs request 
1.20km  
SSD-11606719 Eastern Creek Recycling Ecology Park Throughput 
Increase - Increase in throughput of an existing 
Recycling Ecology Park including upgrade of 
supporting site infrastructure at 1 Kangaroo Avenue, 
Eastern Creek 
Response to 
submissions  
<1km 
SSD-47320208 Project Echidna Data Centre Eastern Creek - The 
Construction and Operation of a Data Centre with an 
operational capacity of 35MW including data hall 
fitout, associated emergency back-up generators and 
cooling plant, office space, equipment rooms and car 
parking. 
Approved: 5 
April 2024 
1.25km 
SSD-63741210 NEXTDC S4 Data Centre, Horsley Park – 6 data centre 
buildings (250 MW capacity), substation, car parking 
and landscaping at 16 Johnston Crescent, Horsley Park.  
Approved: 24 
December 2025  
2.48km  
SSD-82211208 STACK SYD01 Data Centre, Erskine Park - Construction 
and operation of a data centre with an operational 
capacity of 450 MW including a building height of 24 
m, 82,020 sqm of GFA, substation, water storage, 
ancillary infrastructure and landscaping at 78 
Lockwood Road, Erskine Park.  
Response to 
Submissions   
1.60km  
MP06_0139 Eastern Creek Recycling Ecology Park - The original 
approval granted consent for the Genesis Xero Waste 
Management Facility, including a resource recovery 
facility and non-putrescible landfill with a material 
handling capacity of 700 tonnes per annum. The latest 
modification relates to the construction and operation 
of a new Leachate Treatment Plant to replace the 
existing LTP. 
Approved 22 
November 
2009,  
Latest 
Modification 
Approved: 26 
November 2025 
<1km 
Other relevant references  
Review of 
Environmental 
Transport for NSW proposes to upgrade and extend 
Archbold Road to accommodate traffic growth 
Under 
assessment  
<1km  
[[page 24]]
SSDA Reference  Development Description Current Status Distance 
from 
subject 
site  
Factors - Archbold 
Road Extension 
associated with ongoing development in Western 
Sydney. The project would extend the road south from 
the M4 Motorway at Minchinbury to the proposed 
Southern Link Road in Horsley Park and includes 
earthworks, duplication of the existing carriageway, 
construction of a new dual four-lane carriageway and 
associated infrastructure. The project is currently under 
assessment and is located within approximately 1 km 
of the site. 
The potential cumulative impacts of the project will be addressed in the EIS in accordance with the DPHI 
Assessing Cumulative Impacts guidelines. This includes consideration of the following matters: 
▪ Other SSD and State significant infrastructure ( SSI) projects, 
▪ Projects that are classified as designated development and require an EI S, 
▪ Projects that require assessment under division 5.1 of the EP&A Act that are likely to significantly affect 
the environment and require an EIS , 
▪ Projects that have been declared to be controlled actions under the Commonwealth Environment 
Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act), and  
▪ Any major greenfield and urban renewal developments that are scheduled for the area (e.g. new areas 
zoned for urban development).  
A map showing nearby approved and likely future developments relevant to the cumulative impact 
assessment is provided at Figure 8.  
Figure 8 Surrounding Development Approvals Map   
[[page 25]]
 
Source: Urbis, 2026 

[[page 26]]
4 Project 
The project relates to the construction and operation of a data centre. The project will include site 
preparation works, bulk earthworks and infrastructure, and construction of the buildings, ancillary facilities, 
and associated site works. The key components of the proposed development are listed in the following table. 
A copy of the Concept Architectural Plans is attached as Appendix A.  
4.1 Proposed Development 
Table 8 Summary of Project   
Key Element  Proposal  
Project Area The site is irregular in shape and has a total area of approximately 385,734m2. The 
developable area comprises approximately 255,137 m2.   
Proposed Use The proposed use is for a data centre with ancillary offices.  
Project Description  The project includes the construction and operation of a data centre comprising:  
▪ Site establishment works including required  tree removal and earthworks , 
▪ Construction of three interconnected  two-storey data storage buildings 
accommodating  a total of 66 data halls – these are referred to as:  
– Block A,  
– Block B,  
– Block C, 
▪ Internal roads and vehicle crossovers , 
▪ On-site car parking and loading areas ,  
▪ Required utilities and services including on -site substation, and  
▪ Associated landscaping.  
Gross Floor Area The proposal provides an approximate total GFA of 174,411 m², comprising:  
▪ Data halls: 86,494m 2 
▪ Ancillary office areas: 4,552m2 
▪ Security operations centres: 360m2 
Building Height ▪ Block A: 22.41m  
▪ Block B: 22.41m  
▪ Block C: 22.41m  
Floor Space Ratio 0.684:1 
Site Coverage  Developable area: 55.1%  
Entire site: 27.98% 
Deep Soil Area Developable area: 18,143.71m 2 (7.1%) 
Car Parking  330 car parking spaces  
Required Utilities Diesel Fuel Tanks  
Above-ground belly tanks will provide approximately 24 -hour diesel storage for 
backup generation. Final quantities will be confirmed during detailed design.  
 
[[page 27]]
Key Element  Proposal  
Industrial Water Tanks  
Above-ground industrial water tanks will be located on the eastern side of the site, 
with capacity sized to operational requirements. Final design and storage volumes 
may be refined.  
Water Connection  
Water infrastructure is available to the site via the existing DN375 DICL main along 
Honeycomb Drive to the north, with two service connections proposed to enable 
servicing from commencement. Demand estimates, inclusive of domestic, 
industrial and fire ser vices, are currently being finalised.  
In parallel, a recycled water solution is being progressed in collaboration with 
Sydney Water and Conexa, with the objective of integrating recycled supply into 
the site’s operational water strategy.  
Fire Water  
Dedicated above -ground fire water tanks will be located adjacent to the industrial 
tanks to supply hydrants, sprinklers and hoses. Tank specifications will be 
confirmed at detailed design stage.  
Substation  
An on-site substation will be located in the western portion of the site adjacent to 
the transmission easement, enabling connection to the TransGrid Sydney West 
330/132 kV Substation approximately 1 km south. The facility will include a 330 kV 
switching st ation and 33 kV switch room capable of supporting a 612 MW data 
centre. 
Backup Power Supply  
Approximately 320 to 340 prime -rated diesel generators (3.1 MW each) will supply 
IT and mechanical loads, with additional smaller units for ancillary services. 
Generators will undergo routine testing, including annual load bank testing 
typically up to one hour in duration.  
Sewer  
The site will connect to an existing sewer manhole at the intersection of 
Honeycomb Drive and Archbold Road.  
Power Consumption 612MW  
Operations and 
Management  
The facility w ill be constructed and operated by  NEXTDC. The s ite will be 
operational  on a 24-hour, 7 day a week basis.  
Existing Services 
and Infrastructure  
Existing services and infrastructure will be extended, adapted and augmented to 
meet the demands of the project. 
Expected Capital 
Investment Value 
$7,154,563,995 .00 
Staging/Phasing ▪ Stage 1: Site establishment    
▪ Stage 2: Remediation (if required),  
▪ Stage 3: Construction, and  
▪ Stage 4: Operation. 
Jobs ▪ Construction: Approximately 2,000 FTE construction roles with an expected 
construction peak of approximately 500 workers on site at any  given time, and  
[[page 28]]
Key Element  Proposal  
▪ Operation: Approximately  425 FTE roles with an expected maximum of 258 staff 
on the site at any given time.  
Indicative renders of the proposed development are provided in the following figures and attached at 
Appendix C. 
Figure 9 Indicative Render  showing the view toward the site from the north -east along Honeycomb Drive.  
 
Source: Architectus, 2026  
Figure 10 Indicative Render showing the view toward the site from the southern boundary of the site.  
 
Source: Architectus, 2026  

[[page 29]]
 
 
 
Figure 11 Indicative Render showing the view toward the site from the north west including the approved retaining wall configuration.    
 
Source: Architectus, 2026  
Figure 12 Indicative Render showing the view toward the site from the south west from future Archibold Road .   
 
Source: Architectus, 2026  
 
 
  

[[page 30]]
Figure 13 Indicative Render showing the birds eye view  of eastern boundary .   
 
Source: Architectus, 2026  
 
  

[[page 31]]
4.2 Detailed Development Description  
4.2.1 Project Area  
The site has a total area of approximately 385,734 m² and comprises the following:  
▪ Lot 13: 353,375 m2 
▪ Lot 7: 32,159  m2  
The Proposed Subdivision Plan shown in Figure 14 confirms the developable area of approximately 255,137m2. 
This excludes the following areas: 
▪ 69,216m 2 in the southern portion for a bioretention basin (intended for Council acquisition) ,  
▪ 54,727m 2 of Fulton Hogan land within the north -western panhandle,  
▪ 5,317m2 reserved for the future Archbold Road extension, and  
▪ 1,337m2 allocated for a future access road to the southern portion of the site.  
Figure 14 Proposed Subdivision Plan  
 
Source: Architectus , 2026 
A site plan is provided at Figure 15, a section plan is provided at Figure 16 and a block diagram of the project 
is provided at Figure 17.  
 
  

[[page 32]]
Figure 15 Proposed Site Plan  
 
Source: Architectus , 2026 
Figure 16 Proposed Section  
 
Source: Architectu s, 2026 
  

[[page 33]]
Figure 17 Proposed Axonometric  Render  
 
Source: Architectus , 2026 
4.2.2 Site Preparation Works  
Removal of existing structures and hardstand areas will be undertaken in accordance with demolition plans 
submitted with the EIS and supported by a Waste Management Plan (WMP). Other site preparation works will 
include tree removal and installation of services across the site. Bulk earthworks are expected across both Lot 
7 and Lot 13 to accommodate the future design specifications of the data centre development. These will be 
detailed in Civil Plans accompanying the EIS. 
4.2.3 Access and Car Parking 
Vehicle access will be provided from Honeycomb Drive along the northern boundary, connecting to the 
internal road network. Four crossovers are proposed, separating truck, staff vehicle and substation access 
(Figure 18).  
Truck movements will occur via the central site area, with circulation provided by perimeter roads and central 
accessways. Internal roads will be designed in accordance with Council standards. 
The development will provide 330 car parking spaces, along with motorcycle and bicycle parking and end-
of-trip facilities. A Civil Report, detailed civil plans and a Traffic Impact Assessment will accompany the 
application to address relevant engineering and traffic requirements. 
 
  

[[page 34]]
Figure 18 Proposed Circulation  
 
Source: Architectus, 202 6 
4.2.4 Landscaping  
Landscaping will comprise native and endemic trees, shrubs and grasses to provide amenity and an 
attractive streetscape. Existing trees will be retained where possible, with any removals offset by 
replacement planting. Species that are present within the existing Vegetation Management Plan ( VMP) at 
the southern section of the site will be incorporated into the proposed planting schedule  to ensure 
consistency across the site . The design will seek to strengthen the urban tree canopy and soften  the 
proposed built form through planting within setbacks.  
4.2.5 Vegetation  
The proposal includes approximately 18,143.71m² of deep soil landscaping, primarily within boundary setbacks 
to create a vegetated buffer to the public domain. Species selection will accord with Council’s Tree Planting 
List and the existing VMP. Any future fencing will be set behind landscaped areas to maintain a green 
interface with the public domain surrounding the site.  
  

[[page 35]]
4.2.6 Infrastructure, Servicing and Plant Equipment 
Power Connection 
NEXTDC has engaged TransGrid and Lumea in the early planning of the project’s electrical connection. It is 
proposed that the S7 development will be serviced by two 330kV transmission lines from the Sydney West 
Bulk Supply Point to a new on-site 330kV switching station and 330kV/33kV substation. 
The SSDA will include the construction of the on-site switching station and substation. The proposed 
transmission lines are non-contestable works to be delivered by TransGrid. While these lines will service the S7 
development, the switching station will also facilitate broader network connectivity and enable future 
connections for other users. 
Advice will be sought from the Planning Secretary to confirm that the transmission lines do not form part of 
the single proposed development, with TransGrid to undertake these works under Part 5 of the EP&A Act. 
Site Capacity 
The expected total site load is approximately 700MW, with infrastructure designed to support up to 875MVA. 
NEXTDC is continuing discussions with TransGrid and AEMO to confirm and support the proposed load 
requirements. 
Figure 19 Concept Schematic – Electrical Services   
 
Source: NEXTDC, 2026 
Transmission Infrastructure 
The proposed transmission lines are to be located within the existing TransGrid transmission corridor 
connecting Sydney West to Sydney North. These works include the upgrade and/or replacement of existing 
transmission towers to accommodate the additional lines. 
Importantly, these transmission works are external to the S7 site and do not form part of the SSD application. 
They are non-contestable network infrastructure to be delivered by TransGrid under a separate approval 
pathway. 
The development provides for two connection points within the S7 site to facilitate integration with the 
broader transmission network. These connection points may be utilised by TransGrid to support future 
network connections to the north. 
 

[[page 36]]
Figure 20 Transmission Line s (not part of SSDA)   
 
Source: NEXTDC, 2026  
Water and Cooling 
The proposed cooling system comprises a hybrid wet/dry system. This approach utilises water to improve 
energy efficiency but is not dependent on water for operation. 
The system is designed to achieve an annualised Water Usage Effectiveness (WUE) of approximately 0.16 
L/kWh, subject to detailed design and final equipment selection. Compared to conventional cooling towers, 
this system significantly reduces water consumption. 
Average daily water demand at approximately 70% load is estimated at 5.44 ML/day, with peak demand at 
full site maturity reaching up to 7.79 ML/day over a 24-hour period. 
NEXTDC has commenced engagement with Sydney Water regarding interim potable water supply for Stage 1, 
as well as potential recycled water opportunities, including supply from the St Marys Advanced Water 
Treatment Plant. Investigations are also underway with coNEXA to identify potential connections to the 
recycled water main associated with the S4 development. 
The final water servicing strategy will be confirmed as part of the SSDA. 
 
 
 

[[page 37]]
Backup Generation 
The development will include approximately 330 diesel generators rated at 3.4MW each, providing a total 
installed capacity of 1,122MW. This includes redundancy and spare capacity, with a maximum operational 
load of approximately 900MW at any one time. 
Generators will be tested periodically in accordance with an operational protocol designed to minimise 
cumulative impacts. This will include: 
▪ coordination of testing with nearby data centres within a 5km radius  
▪ limiting total testing (including warm -up and cool-down) to no more than 200 hours per year  
▪ restricting testing to a maximum of 12 generators at any one time, and no more than four generators 
per building  
These parameters will inform the air quality and emissions assessment prepared for the SSDA. 
On-site Fuel Storage 
The final fuel storage strategy is currently being refined. It is anticipated that the site will store sufficient diesel 
to provide between 24 and 48 hours of operation in the event of a total power outage. 
Based on current assumptions, this equates to an on-site storage capacity in the order of 8,000 to 14,000 
kilolitres. The final storage volumes and configuration will be confirmed in the SSDA documentation. 
4.2.7 Development Timing  
The project will be carried out in stages, with individual phases as detailed below:  
▪ Site preparation works including removal of existing structures, tree removal, earthworks  within Lot 7 , 
utility services and stormwater management ,  
▪ Site remediation (if required),  
▪ Construction of data halls, associated utilities, internal roads and the car park.   
▪ Landscaping and external works  
Construction of the project is expected to occur for a total period of 42 months. The indicative construction 
staging, and estimated duration of construction is summarised in Table 9. It is noted this is indicative and 
that a detailed construction timeline will be confirmed once a contractor has been appointed.  
Table 9 Preliminary Construction Schedule   
Construction Activities  Duration (Months) Commencement  
Bulk earthworks (largely 
completed under existing MOD23-
00703) 
9 May 2026 – February 2027  
Construction – Building A  18 November 2026 – May 2027 
Construction – Building B  18 May 2027 – November 2028 
Construction – Building C 18 May 2028 – November 2029 
  
[[page 38]]
4.3 Feasible Alternatives 
The Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 (EP&A Regulation) has been updated and 
Sectio 192 no longer requires an analysis of any feasible alternatives to the proposed development, including 
the consequences of not carrying out the development.  
Notwithstanding this, NEXTDC has identified three alternatives in response to the need for the proposed data 
centre. These options are outlined in the table below. 
Table 10 Analysis of Feasible Alternatives  
Option Comment 
Option 1 – 
Consequences of not 
carrying out the 
development. 
This option was dismissed as the objectives of the project would not be met. If the 
proposal was not to proceed, the site would remain underutilised, foregoing an 
opportunity to provide infrastructure and employment opportunities. This 
scenario would retain the predominately vacant site, which is becoming 
increasingly redundant in the context of the changing architectural design and 
function of modern industrial developments. 
Option 2 – Alternate 
locations  
Consideration was given to carrying out development on alternative sites; 
however, these were dismissed as follows:   
▪ The alternative sites were close to sensitive land activities, including 
residential development, and potential impacts could not be mitigated,  
▪ The alternative sites outside proximity to other NEXTDC data centres or 
adequate transport , electricity or water infrastructure ,  
▪ The alternative s ites were physically constrained and could not 
accommodate the required scale of development , and/or  
▪ The alternative s ites were constrained by environmental sensitive areas, 
including heritage , bushfire or flooding.  
Option 3 – Alternative 
design  
A range of design options were explored for the building layout including 
alternatives to minimise impacts on vegetation and biodiversity . Substantial 
setbacks to the areas of biodiversity would increase height of the data halls 
which raises amenity concern for nearby receivers  and the public domain . This 
option was therefore not considered appropriate.  
Option 4 – The proposal  The siting and design of the proposed data centre was resolved through a 
comprehensive analysis of the site opportunities and constraints . The proposal 
has been developed in consultation with key stakeholders to minimise impacts, 
while achieving positive amenity, planning and design outcomes.  The proposal 
was identified as being the most suitable option to achieve the Project 
objectives for the following reasons:  
▪ The site is strategically positioned within the Eastern Creek Precinct, a 
recognised and expanding industrial hub in the  WSEA,  
▪ The proximity to other NEXTDC data centres enables operational efficiencies 
and business synergies, supporting economic activity in both the WSEA and 
greater Western Sydney ,  
▪ The proposal can be achieved without having unacceptable environmental 
impacts in relation to traffic, noise, heritage, biodiversity and visual impacts , 
and  
▪ The site offers the most cost -effective opportunity to deliver a new, 
high-quality data storage facility  that contributes to the local infrastructure 
network.  
[[page 39]]
5 Statutory Context 
This section of the report provides an overview of the key statutory requirements relevant to the site and the 
project, including:  
▪ Commonwealth Environmental Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act  1999 (EPBC Act), 
▪ NSW Biodiversity Act 2016 (BC Act), 
▪ NSW Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 2021 (EP&A Act), 
▪ NSW Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation  2021 (EP&A Regulation ), 
▪ NSW Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1997  (PoEO Act),  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy ( Planning Systems ) 2021 (Planning Systems SEP P), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021 ( T&I SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Resilience and Hazards) 2021 (R&H SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Biodiversity and Conservation) 2021 ( B&C SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy ( Industry and Employment ) 2021 (I&E SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 2022 ( Sustainable Buildings SEPP), 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Precincts —Western Parkland City) 2021 ( WPC SEPP), 
▪ Blacktown Local Environmental Plan 2015 (BLEP2015), 
▪ Stage 3 Eastern Creek Precinct Plan (ECPP), and  
▪ Blacktown Development Control Plan  2015 (BDCP2015).  
The following table categorises and summarises the relevant requirements in accordance with the DPHI 
guidelines. Each of these matters will be addressed in further detail within the future EIS. 
5.1 Statutory Requirements 
The following table categorises and summarises the relevant requirements in accordance with the DPHI State 
Significant Development Guidelines. 
Table 11 Identification of Statutory Requirements for the Project  
Statutory 
Relevance 
Action 
Power to grant 
approval 
Under Schedule 1, Section 25 of the Planning Systems SEPP, development for the purpose 
of data centres that has a total power consumption of more than 15 megawatts is 
classified as SSD as stated by the following:  
25 Data centres  
(1) Development for the purpose of storage premises used for the storage of data 
and related information technology hardware that has a total power 
consumption of more than the relevant amount. 
(2) In this section — relevant amount means— 
a) for development in relation to which the relevant environmental assessment 
requirements are notified under the Act on or before 31 May 2023—10 
megawatts, or 
(b) for any other development—15 megawatts. 
[[page 40]]
Statutory 
Relevance 
Action 
The proposed data centre on the site will have a total power consumption of 612 
megawatts and accordingly, is to be assessed as an SSDA. 
Permissibility  The site is zoned IN1 General Industrial under the I&E SEPP. The proposal comprises the 
construction and operation of a data centre, which is a form of ‘light industry’ and 
accordingly, is permissible with consent in the zone. 
Other 
approvals 
(General) 
▪ NSW National Parks & Wildlife Act 1974  
The site contains Aboriginal archaeological items. Under section 90 of the National 
Parks & Wildlife Act 1974 , an Aboriginal Heritage Impact Permit (AHIP) is not required 
for State Significant Development.  
An ACHAR will be prepared in consultation with Aboriginal stakeholders, consistent 
with previous archaeological investigations undertaken on Lot 13.   
▪ NSW Heritage Act 1977  
The site is not affected by any heritage listings or draft heritage listings on the NSW 
State Heritage Register and therefore no approvals will be required under the Heritage 
Act 1977.  
▪ NSW Roads Act 19 93 
The project includes four vehicle crossovers connecting to Honeycomb Drive. In 
accordance with section 138 of the Roads Act 1993, approval will be required from 
TfNSW.  
▪ NSW Water Management Act 2000  
The EIS will consider the Guidelines for Controlled Activities on Waterfront Land and 
the NSW Aquifer Interference Policy (2012)  in the assessment and supporting 
documentation , noting the proximity of the site to the tributary of Ropes Creek . 
▪ Commonwealth Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999  
Under the EPBC Act, actions likely to significantly impact Matters of National 
Environmental Significance must be referred to the Commonwealth Minister for the 
Environment.  
Preliminary investigations indicate potential MNES may occur on the site; however, a 
significant impact is not anticipated in accordance with the Significant Impact 
Guidelines 1.1 – Matters of National Environmental Significance . Ecological advice will 
be sought to determine whether a BDAR or a waiver is appropriate, and the EIS will 
assess biodiversity impacts and identify mitigation measures accordingly . 
▪ NSW Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1997  
Schedule 1 of the POEO Act identifies activities requiring an Environment Protection 
Licence (EPL). Relevant to the project is chemical storage under Section 9. Given the 
anticipated volume of on-site diesel storage, the activity is expected to exceed the 
applicable threshold and will require an EPL. 
▪ NSW Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016  
The developable area is predominantly cleared. Remnant vegetation within Lot 13 is 
currently being assessed for removal under MOD -23-00703. Scattered vegetation 
also occurs within Lot 7, which is not mapped as high biodiversity value; however, it 
has not been assessed and may  require a BDAR. Ecological advice will be obtained 
to determine whether a BDAR or a waiver is appropriate .  
[[page 41]]
5.2 Pre-Conditions 
Table 12 outlines the pre-conditions to exercising the power to grant approval which are relevant to the 
project. 
Table 12 Pre-Conditions  
Pre-conditions to Granting 
Consent  
Comment  
Section 4.24 of the EP&A Act 
– Concept Development 
Consent 
There is no concept proposal for the development site.  
Section 175 of the EP&A 
Regulation – Infrastructure 
and environmental impact 
assessment  
SEARs will be issued by the Secretary under section 175 of the EP&A Regulation 
and will identify the detailed information required by sections 190 and 192, 
including a statement prepared by a Registered Environmental Assessment 
Practitioner (REAP). 
Section 66 of the EP&A 
Regulation – Contributions 
plans for certain areas in 
Sydney 
A consent authority cannot determine a development unless a contribution 
plan applies to the land. A contribution is not required where the applicant 
has entered into a planning agreement under Part 7 of the Act addressing 
those matters. 
The VPAs entered under previous development consents for the site have 
been executed. These VPAs required the payment of contributions in 
accordance with Section 7.11 Contributions Plan No. 18 – Eastern Creek Stage 
3. As these obligations have been satisfied, no further Section 7.11 
contributions are required in respect of the SSD application. 
WPC SEPP  Chapter 4 establishes pre-conditions to granting consent for development 
within the Aerotropolis. The site is outside the Aerotropolis; however, the 
following provisions remain relevant considerations:  
▪ Section 4.19 Wildlife hazards , 
▪ The site is located within the 13km wildlife buffer zone under the WPC 
SEPP. As such, a n Ecological Assessment will be undertaken to determine 
the extent and potential presence of wildlife on the site . The findings will 
determine if further assessment or mitigation measures are required.  
▪ Section 4.22 Airspace operations . 
▪ The proposed maximum height of the data centre development 
measures approximately 22.41m from the EGL. As such, it is not 
considered that any impact to airspace operations would occur. The 
finalised Architectural Plans will specify the maximum height of the 
proposal.  
B&C SEPP Chapter 2 protects biodiversity values of trees and vegetation on site. Section 
2.6 requires approval for clearing vegetation in non-rural areas and Section 
2.15 requires a BDAR where clearing exceeds applicable thresholds. Ecological 
advice will be sought to determine the requirement of a BDAR or the 
applicability of a BDAR Waiver.  
T&I SEPP Section 2.48 requires referral of development within or adjacent to an 
electricity easement to TransGrid or Ausgrid. Section 2.122 requires referral of 
data centre development with access to a road to Transport for NSW. A Traffic 
Impact Assessment (TIA) will assess traffic conditions, access and parking, 
road network capacity, and pedestrian and cycling impacts, including 
[[page 42]]
Pre-conditions to Granting 
Consent  
Comment  
changes to traffic volumes on Honeycomb Drive and the internal road 
network. 
R&H SEPP Section 4.6 requires the consent authority to be satisfied the land is suitable 
for the proposed use in its current or remediated state. Chapter 3 requires an 
appropriate level of assessment for hazardous or offensive industries and 
consideration of potential impacts. A Preliminary Hazard Assessment will be 
conducted to determine the presence and impacts of contamination and 
hazardous materials at the site.  
5.3 Mandatory Considerations 
Table 13 outlines the relevant mandatory considerations to exercising the power to grant approval and the 
section where these matters are addressed within the EIS. 
Table 13 Mandatory Considerations  
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
Consideration under the EP&A Act and EP&A Regulation 
Section 1.3 The relevant objects of the EP&A Act will be addressed in the EIS  
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(i) 
Relevant environmental planning 
instrument 
All relevant EPIs will be addressed in the EIS. 
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(ii) 
Relevant draft environmental 
planning instrument 
N/A 
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(iii) 
Relevant development control plan 
The BDCP2015 will be considered as part of the SSDA.  
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(iiia) any planning 
agreement or draft planning 
agreement 
The site is subject to several previously executed VPAs. All 
obligations under the relevant VPAs have been met and will 
continue to be met following development of the data centre. If any 
amendment to an existing VPA is required, this will be appropriately 
addressed in the EIS. The proposal will require contributions under 
the Housing and Productivity Contributions (HPC) for industrial 
development. The contributions will be calculated at future stages of 
the development.  
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(iv) relevant 
matters prescribed by the 
Regulations. 
The following relevant matters are applicable and will be addressed 
in the EIS. 
▪ Section 61 – Additional matters that consent authority must 
consider 
▪ Section 62 - Consideration of fire safety  
▪ Section 63 – Consideration for erection of temporary structures  
▪ Section 64 – Consent authority may require upgrade of 
buildings 
[[page 43]]
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
▪ Section 66 – Contributions for certain areas in Sydney – the 
Act, s4.16(1)  
▪ Section 66A – Council related development applications – the 
Act s4.16(11)  
▪ Section 67 – Modification or surrender of development consent 
or existing use right – the Act, s 4.17(5)  
▪ Section 68 Voluntary surrender of development consent – the 
Act s4.63 
Section 4.15(1)(b) the likely impacts 
of that development, including 
environmental impacts on both the 
natural and built environments, and 
social and economic impacts in the 
locality, 
The likely impacts of the development have been identified in 
Section 7 of this Scoping Report including those matters requiring 
further assessment in the EIS. 
Section 4.15(1)(c) The suitability of 
the site for the development 
The EIS will assess the suitability of the site, including compatibility 
with the locality and site attributes. 
Section 4.15(1)(d) Any submissions 
made in accordance with the Act or 
regulations  
Early engagement will be undertaken with the community and 
agencies. A detailed response to submissions will be provided 
following exhibition of the EIS. 
Section 4.15(1)(e) The Public Interest The public interest will be addressed in the EIS, including consistency 
with Commonwealth, State and local strategic policy. 
Section 4.24 Status of concept 
development applications and 
consents  
N/A 
Section 4.38 Consent for State 
significant development  
Sets out the provisions for determining a State significant 
development. 
Mandatory relevant considerations under EPIs 
I&E SEPP The I&E SEPP establishes the land use zoning and development 
controls applying to the site. The following provisions will be 
addressed in the EIS: 
▪ Chapter 2 Western Sydney employment area .  
– Section 2.2 Land use permissibility and consistency with 
zone objectives , 
– Section 2.17 - Requirement for development control plans. 
The SSDA will provide consideration to the BDCP2015,  
– Section 2.18 - Existing precinct plans under SEPP 59. The 
SSDA will provide an assessment against the provisions of 
the Stage 3 Eastern Creek Precinct Plan,  
– Part 2.4 Development Standards :  
• Section 2.19 Ecologically sustainable development , 
• Section 2.20 Height of buildings , 
• Section 2.21 Rainwater harvesting , 
• Section 2.23 Development involving subdivision , 
[[page 44]]
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
• Section 2.24 Public utility infrastructure , 
• Section 2.25 Development on or in vicinity of proposed 
transport infrastructure routes ,  
• Section 2.30 Design principles,  
• Section 2.31 Preservation of trees or vegetation,  
• Section 2.34 Development of land within or adjacent to 
transport investigation area,  
• Section 2.40 Earthworks,  
• Section 2.44 Stormwater, water quality and water 
sensitive design , and  
▪ Chapter 3 Signage .  
The EIS will include a detailed assessment against the relevant 
provisions within the I&E SEPP.  
R&H SEPP Section 3.10 Potentially hazardous or offensive development will be 
assessed as part of the SSDA. A Preliminary Hazards Analysis will be 
provided, assessing the hazards, emissions and risks associated 
with data centre development.  
Section 4.6 Contamination and remediation will be assessed as part 
of the SSDA. A Detailed Site Investigation (DSI) will be conducted to 
ensure site suitability for the proposed development. Any required 
remediation or further investigation will be addressed in the EIS. 
T&I SEPP Section 2.48 Electricity transmission and distribution infrastructure 
impacts will be assessed. An Infrastructure and Staging Delivery Plan 
will address the power supply, substation connection and general 
transmission requirements.   
Section 2.122 Traffic generating development will be assessed. As 
mentioned, a TIA will accompany the EIS to provide a detailed 
assessment of the cumulative impacts of construction and 
operation of the proposed data centre.  
B&C SEPP Chapter 2 Vegetation in non-rural areas will be assessed as part of 
the SSDA. Landscape Plans will detail the proposed vegetation in 
accordance with the existing VMP on the site. Details of the planting 
schedule, quantity and layout will be addressed within the 
Landscape Plans.  
Sustainable Buildings SEPP Section 3.2 Non-residential development requirements will be 
addressed in the SSDA. In accordance with the Sustainable Buildings 
SEPP, an Ecologically Sustainable Design (ESD) Report will be 
provided, inclusive of a NABERS embodied emissions form.  
Section 3.3 Additional requirements for large commercial 
development will be assessed. The assessment within the ESD report 
will provide details on greenhouse gas emissions, climate risk and 
resilience, operational performance targets and water sensitive 
urban design (WSUD).  
 
 
[[page 45]]
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
Considerations under other legislation 
BC Act Part 7 and Part 8(2) The likely impact of the proposed development on biodiversity 
values will be assessed in either a BDAR or BDAR waiver. The Minister 
for Planning may (but is not required to) further consider under that 
BC Act the likely impact of the proposed development on 
biodiversity values. Biodiversity matters are addressed in Section 6 
of this report and will be addressed in detail within the EIS. 
EPBC Act Chapter 2 of the EPBC Act establishes controls for assessing and 
regulating the environmental impact of activities (including 
development) where MNES may be affected. Under the EPBC Act, 
any action which has, will have, or is likely to have a significant 
impact on MNES is defined as a “controlled action” and requires 
approval from the relevant Commonwealth Minister. 
Assessment of significance is not required in accordance with the 
Significant Impact Guidelines 1.1 – Matters of National Environmental 
Significance published by the Commonwealth Department of 
Agriculture, Water and the Environment. 
If required, a BDAR will be submitted as part of the EIS and will be 
included an assessment against the requirements of the EPBC Act. 
WM Act  Section 91 regulates controlled activity approvals and aquifer 
interference approvals. For State significant development, a water 
use approval, water management work approval or controlled 
activity approval (other than an aquifer interference approval) is not 
required. 
Notwithstanding, the proposal will have regard to the Guidelines for 
Controlled Activities on Waterfront Land and the NSW Aquifer 
Interference Policy 2012, which will be considered and addressed 
within the EIS and supporting technical documentation. 
Roads Act 1993 Section 138 regulates works and structures in, on or over a public 
road including requirements for concurrence from TfNSW. 
The Guide for Traffic Generating Developments will be considered as 
part of the Transport Assessment for the project and assessed 
within the EIS. 
Precinct Plan 
ECPP The Stage 3 Eastern Creek Precinct Plan will be addressed in detail 
within the EIS. Consideration will be given to the following –  
▪ Section 3 – Economic development and employment,  
▪ Section 4 – General services,  
▪ Section 5 – Stormwater management,  
▪ Section 7 – Environmental management,  
▪ Section 8 – Biodiversity,  
▪ Section 9 – Heritage,  
▪ Section 10 – Traffic and transport,  
▪ Section 11 – Urban design,  
[[page 46]]
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
▪ Section 12 – Community services,  
▪ Section 13 – Open spaces, and  
▪ Section 14 – Landscaping.  
Development Control Plan 
BDCP2015 In accordance with Section 2.10(1) of the Planning Systems SEPP, 
there is no requirement for assessment of the project against the 
BDCP2015. Notwithstanding, the proposal will consider the following 
parts of the BDCP2015: 
▪ Part A – Introduction and general guidelines,  
▪ Part E – Development in industrial zones,  
▪ Part G – Site waste management and minimisation,  
▪ Part I – Contaminated land guidelines, and  
▪ Part J – Water sensitive urban design and integrated water 
cycle managemen t. 
Development Contributions Plans 
Section 7.11 Contributions Plan No.18 
– Eastern Creek Stage 3  
Base contributions within Stage 3 – Eastern Creek Precinct as listed 
below:  
▪ Water Management ‒ Ropes Creek Tributary: $1,215,144 per 
hectare, and   
▪ Traffic Management ‒ Quarry Link Road: $27,748 per hectare ‒ 
Eastern Creek Precinct 3: $3,415 per hectare  
Previous DAs on the site have required the payment of Section 7.11 
contributions. As these contributions have already been paid, no 
further Section 7.11 contributions are required as part of the SSD 
application.  
Housing Productivity Contribution  The relevant base rate for the HPC is $15 per square metre of new 
industrial GFA . The total contributions payable will be calculated 
upon completion of a finalised design.  
[[page 47]]
6 Community Engagement 
The following sections of the report describe the engagement activities that have already been carried out 
for the project, and the engagement to be carried out during the preparation of the EIS. 
6.1 Engagement Carried Out 
The proposed development reflects discussions with the following key agencies: 
Table 14 Agency Engagement  
Agency  Date Comments/Feedback 
TransGrid  12/12/2025 Key outcomes:  
▪ NEXTDC is responsible for obtaining approvals for the onsite substation 
works (contestable scope) .  
▪ The transmission line works form part of TransGrid infrastructure and 
are intended to be assessed separately under Part 5 of the EP&A Act 
(self-determination), subject to:  
– a determination under Section 4.38 of the EP&A Act by the Planning 
Secretary confirming the non -contestable works are separate from, 
and do not form part of, the single proposed development (S7 Data 
Centre), to be sought by NEXTDC at its own risk; and  
– confirmation that environmental impacts are not significant.  
Adjoining 
landowner 
(Jacfin) 
30/03/2026 A letter was issued to the adjoining landowner providing a high-level 
overview of the project and inviting them to attend a project briefing. The 
letter has been acknowledged, however no confirmation has been received 
regarding participation in the briefing. 
Once the SEARs are received, the Applicant will proceed with the formal consultation process as part of 
preparing the EIS, as detailed in Section 6.2. 
6.2 Future Engagement to be Carried out by the Applicant 
Further community and stakeholder consultation will be undertaken in the preparation and assessment of 
the EIS including: 
▪ Key Stakeholders:  it is proposed to consult with the following stakeholders during the preparation of 
the EIS: 
– DPHI, 
– Blacktown City Council ,  
– Transport for NSW , 
– Sydney Water , 
– Rural Fire Service , 
– TransGrid,  
– Jemena, and   
– NSW Environmental Protection Authority ( EPA).  
▪ Other Interested Stakeholders:  additional stakeholders may be identified during the preparation of the 
EIS.  
[[page 48]]
▪ Key Actions:  the following actions will be undertaken to keep the community informed regarding the 
project, obtain feedback from the community on the project and engage with stakeholders on the 
detailed assessment of key matters:  
– A dedicated engagement strategy will be prepared following the issue of SEARs , 
– Additional consultation actions may be identified following further engagement with key 
stakeholders and DPHI , and  
– The EIS and supporting documentation will be placed on public exhibition, providing stakeholders 
with an additional opportunity to review the Project, including the final development plans and the 
detailed specialist studies and assessment reports accompan ying the final EIS.  
▪ The proposed actions are consistent with the community participation objectives in the Undertaking 
Engagement Guidelines for State Significant Projects. An engagement consultant will be responsible for 
monitoring, reviewing and adapting the effectiveness o f the engagement strategy to encourage 
community participation in the Project.  
An Engagement Outcomes Report will be provided with the EIS. 
  
[[page 49]]
7 Proposed Assessment of Impacts 
This section identifies the key impacts which will be further investigated and assessed within the EIS, including 
the proposed approach to assessing each of these matters. It also identifies the matters addressed in the 
Scoping Report phase that are unlikely to result in significant impacts and do not warrant further 
consideration in the EIS. 
7.1 Matters Requiring Further Assessment in the EIS 
Table 15 outlines the relevant matters and impacts which will be addressed in detail within the EIS. It outlines 
the matters and impacts of particular concern to the community and other stakeholders. 
Table 15 Matters requiring assessment in the EIS  
Matter  Consideration  
Statutory Context  The EIS will demonstrate consistency with the relevant planning framework and 
approval pathway for the development. 
Estimated 
Development Cost 
and Employment  
The estimated development cost (EDC) will be assessed and addressed within an 
EDC report. The proposal is an employment-generating development positioned to 
create new opportunities within the WSEA. The employment generation is a direct 
response to: 
▪ Forecasted population growth,  
▪ Existing supply and vacancy rate for employment lands, and  
▪ Proposed supply of employment lands.  
Design Quality The SEARs issued for the project will require that the development exhibit design 
quality. An assessment against the relevant matters for consideration will be 
undertaken in the Urban Design Report and EIS. The project is not required to be 
reviewed by the State Design Review Panel (SDRP).  
Built Form and Urban 
Design 
The proposal comprises three interconnected two storey buildings (Blocks A, B and 
C) with a maximum height of 22.41 metres and a total GFA of approximately 
174,411m². Concept Architectural Plans are provided at Appendix A.  
The built form responds to site topography and the surrounding industrial context 
and incorporates façade articulation, setbacks and landscape treatment to reduce 
perceived bulk and improve the public domain interface. The design addresses site 
levels, earthworks and retaining walls and will be supported by a cumulative impact 
assessment. 
Landscaping will respond to cut and fill conditions and retaining wall treatments 
and will maximise canopy cover to improve shade and reduce urban heat island 
effects. The development will complement the surrounding height, scale and 
character through appropriate articulation, setbacks and landscape buffering. 
The EIS will include detailed Architectural Plans and a Design Report addressing 
Better Placed principles, together with a BCA Compliance Report and Accessibility 
Report demonstrating compliance. 
Visual Impact The site is located within an established industrial precinct and is characterised by 
a largely modified landscape with limited existing built form, aside from the Fulton 
Hogan Asphalt Plant in the northern portion of the site. The broader visual context 
includes large-scale warehouse and distribution facilities to the east, cleared land 
and transmission easements to the west, and low-density residential development 
further to the north and west beyond the M4 corridor.  
[[page 50]]
Matter  Consideration  
MOD-23-00703 establishes a revised site pad across most of the site, falling from 
north to south, with an approximate level difference of 15 metres supported by 
amended retaining walls. This responds to the site’s overall topography, which falls 
from approximately RL80 at the northern boundary to RL55–60 in the south.  
The visual catchment of the site is constrained due to the underlying topography, 
existing vegetation, and surrounding development patterns. Potential public 
domain views are generally limited to sections of Honeycomb Drive, Archbold Road, 
and localised elevated vantage points, while more distant views may be available 
from parts of the Erskine Park residential area, particularly from elevated or two-
storey dwellings. In these instances, the site would be perceived within a broader 
visual composition rather than as a dominant element. 
Visual impacts will be assessed in a Visual Impact Assessment (VIA), including 
impacts on key viewpoints, vistas and overall visual amenity, having regard to the 
proposed landscaping, building design and supporting works. The scale of the data 
centre in combination with the modified topography will be assessed from a range 
of surrounding public domain viewpoints, including: 
▪ Western residential area , 
▪ Honeycomb Drive frontage , 
▪ Proposed Archbold Road extension, and 
▪ Lower elevations of the regional basin and surrounding areas .  
The VIA will be informed by fieldwork and photographic documentation and will 
include photomontages prepared from representative viewpoints to test the height, 
form and scale of the proposal within both immediate and wider visual contexts. 
Key viewpoints identified for assessment include locations within nearby residential 
areas, along Honeycomb Drive, and along Archbold Road, with additional 
viewpoints to be included where required to assess bulk and scale. 
Preliminary visual advice (Appendix E) confirms that, given the constrained visual 
catchment and industrial character of the surrounding area, potential visual 
impacts are expected to be localised and generally limited in extent.  
Traffic, Transport 
and Access  
Vehicular access will be provided from Honeycomb Drive along the northern 
boundary, connecting to the internal road network. Four crossovers will separate 
truck, staff and substation access. Truck movements will occur through the central 
site, with circulation via perimeter roads and central accessways. Internal roads will 
be designed in accordance with Council standards. 
The proposed Archbold Road extension is expected to provide additional access 
from the north-western corner and western boundary, with ongoing coordination to 
ensure an integrated design outcome and potential future access opportunities. 
The development will provide approximately 330 car parking spaces, together with 
motorcycle and bicycle parking and end-of-trip facilities. A TIA will assess traffic 
conditions, access and parking, road network capacity, and pedestrian and cycling 
impacts, including changes to traffic volumes on Honeycomb Drive and the internal 
road network. A Civil Report and detailed civil plans will accompany the EIS. 
Construction traffic impacts will be managed through a Construction Traffic 
Management Plan, and a Green Travel Plan will be prepared to minimise 
operational traffic impacts and support sustainability objectives. 
Trees and 
Landscaping  
Vegetation removal associated with the development will be limited to scattered 
trees within the developable area. The southern portion of the site, including the 
bioretention basin, will remain unchanged. 
[[page 51]]
Matter  Consideration  
An Arboricultural Impact Assessment (AIA) will be prepared as part of the EIS to 
identify tree removal and protection measures, and to inform landscape 
replacement and planting strategies.  
The proposal includes deep soil landscaping within site setbacks to provide a 
vegetated buffer to the public domain. Plant species will be selected in accordance 
with applicable guidelines and management plans. Any future fencing will be 
located behind landscaped areas to maintain a green interface with surrounding 
public areas. 
Ecologically 
Sustainable 
Development  
An ESD Report will be prepared to assess the sustainability performance of the 
development in accordance with section 193 of the EP&A Regulation. The 
assessment will address: 
▪ Greenhouse gas emissions,  
▪ Building design and layout,  
▪ Embodied emissions, including preparation of a NABERS embodied emissions 
submission, 
▪ Climate risk and resilience ,  
▪ Operational  performance  targets, 
▪ WSUD,  
▪ Material selection , and  
▪ Energy consumption.  
The ESD report will provide an assessment of the proposal and demonstrate ways in 
which the development can achieve best practice and compliance with 
sustainability requirements.   
Biodiversity  The developable portion of the site is predominantly cleared. Remnant vegetation 
within Lot 13 is currently being assessed for removal under MOD-23-00703. 
Scattered vegetation also occurs within Lot 7, which is not mapped as high 
biodiversity value and has not yet been assessed.  
The southern portion of the site contains a mapped riparian corridor; however, the 
proposed development footprint does not extend into this area.  
Ecological advice will be obtained to determine whether the proposed clearing 
requires a BDAR or whether a waiver may be pursued. 
Back-up Power 
System 
The proposal includes approximately 320 to 340 diesel generator sets (3.1MW each) 
to provide resilient back-up power for data hall IT systems and associated 
mechanical and electrical infrastructure during grid supply interruptions, together 
with smaller ancillary generators for essential services. 
A Back-up Power Report will accompany the EIS outlining the generator 
configuration, operational parameters and testing regime, including routine run 
testing and annual load bank testing. Generator operation will be intermittent and 
managed to minimise off-site impacts. 
Air Quality An Air Quality Impact Assessment (AQIA) will assess construction and operational 
air quality impacts, noting the site’s location within an industrial area near existing 
emission sources including waste and concrete processing facilities. 
The AQIA will include assessment of construction phase dust emissions and 
operational emissions from mechanical plant and generator testing using plume 
dispersion modelling, covering routine testing, likely emission events and worst-
case scenarios.  
[[page 52]]
Matter  Consideration  
The AQIA will be prepared in accordance with EPA guidelines and will identify 
appropriate mitigation, monitoring and management measures based on the 
modelling outcomes. 
Noise and Vibration The development has the potential to generate operational and construction noise 
and vibration, including cumulative impacts with surrounding large-scale 
developments and nearby residential receivers to the west. A Noise and Vibration 
Impact Assessment (NVIA) will be prepared as part of the EIS in accordance with 
the NSW EPA Noise Policy for Industry, Interim Construction Noise Guideline and 
Road Noise Policy. 
The NVIA will include background noise monitoring to characterise the existing 
acoustic environment and establish construction and operational noise criteria. 
Monitoring will comprise unattended measurements at representative locations 
over approximately seven days, supplemented by attended surveys to identify key 
noise sources and support data interpretation. 
Construction and operational noise levels will be predicted at the nearest sensitive 
receivers and assessed against relevant legislation, policies and standards. A 3D 
SoundPLAN model of the operational facility will be developed using plant sound 
power levels and site topography to demonstrate compliance with applicable noise 
limits. 
Where exceedances are identified, mitigation measures will be developed, tested 
and refined in consultation with the project team. The assessment will also inform 
mechanical and electrical design by establishing noise control requirements and 
maximum sound power levels for key plant including generators and chillers. 
Ground and Water 
Conditions  
Ground and water conditions, including major earthworks and retaining walls, are 
being addressed under the current modification application. A Geotechnical Report 
will accompany the EIS to confirm site ground and groundwater conditions, identify 
any residual excavation or stability risks, and inform detailed engineering design 
where required. 
Water Management An Integrated Water Management Plan will assess stormwater quantity and quality, 
drainage infrastructure, and on-site water management measures, including 
erosion and sediment controls. 
The strategy will be refined through design development, with the EIS addressing 
catchment capacity, potential impacts on the regional basin to the south, and any 
irrigation risks. 
Hazards and Risks  The EIS will demonstrate the development would comply with the relevant aspects 
of the following standards: 
▪ AS/NZS 4681 – Storage and handling of Class 9 (miscellaneous) dangerous 
goods and articles,  
▪ A/S IEC 62619  – Secondary cells and batteries containing alkaline or other 
non-acid electrolytes – Safety requirements for secondary lithium cells and 
batteries, for use in industrial applications, and  
▪ FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data  Sheet 5-32 – Data Centres and 
Related Facilities ‒ S 1940 – Storage and handling of flammable and 
combustible liquids.  
This will be addressed in a Preliminary Hazard Analysis.  
Contamination and 
Remediation 
Previous contamination assessments identify Lot 13 as suitable for industrial use. 
The developable area also includes Lot 7, which has not yet been assessed and 
[[page 53]]
Matter  Consideration  
may contain contamination associated with its former use as an asphalt and 
concrete production facility. 
As part of the site has not been previously assessed, a DSI is required to determine 
suitability for the proposed development. Any required remediation or further 
investigation will be addressed in the EIS. 
Waste Management The development will generate waste during site preparation, construction and 
operation. A WMP will be prepared in accordance with relevant waste legislation 
and regulatory requirements. 
The WMP will address both construction and operational waste streams, including 
waste types, storage locations, collection points and removal methods for the 
proposed uses. 
Aboriginal Cultural 
Heritage  
Aboriginal archaeology within Lot 13 is being assessed under the current 
modification application. Lot 7 has not been subject to previous disturbance and 
will require assessment. An Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Assessment Report 
(ACHAR) will be prepared to assess Lot 7. 
The ACHAR will document the investigation, Aboriginal community consultation and 
assessment of Aboriginal cultural heritage and archaeology in accordance with: 
▪ Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Consultation Requirements for Proponents (2010) , 
▪ Guide to Investigating, Assessing and Reporting on Aboriginal Cultural 
Heritage in NSW (2011) , 
▪ Code of Practice for Archaeological Investigation of Aboriginal Objects in NSW , 
and  
▪ Australia ICOMOS Burra Charter for Places of Cultural Significance .  
Social Impact A Social Impact Assessment (SIA) will be prepared to evaluate the project’s social 
effects on surrounding communities, including potential impacts on way of life, 
health, culture and community wellbeing. The assessment will consider both 
beneficial and adverse outcomes and identify appropriate mitigation measures, in 
accordance with the NSW Social Impact Assessment Guidelines. 
Infrastructure 
Requirements and 
Utilities  
The site is located within an established industrial area serviced by existing utility 
infrastructure. The EIS will outline infrastructure requirements and the anticipated 
provision of services, including electricity, water, sewer and communications. 
The TransGrid Sydney West 330/132 kV Substation and Switchyard is located 
approximately 1 km south of the site, with a transmission easement immediately 
west enabling a direct connection. Permanent power is proposed via a 330 kV 
connection (up to approximately 875 MVA) to the Sydney West Bulk Supply Point. 
Reticulation is expected via overhead lines within the TransGrid easement; these 
works will be subject to separate approvals and do not form part of the SSD. A Dial 
Before You Dig search will identify other utility assets. 
Nearby water reservoirs will be assessed for potential connection as part of the EIS. 
The development proposes a hybrid cooling system designed to significantly 
reduce water consumption by operating primarily on air cooling and using water 
only during peak conditions. Water used for cooling will be stored and reused on 
site. As the technology becomes available, it is expected to align with the project’s 
construction timeframe; in the interim the development will utilise the potable 
water network with on-site storage tanks. Early engagement with Sydney Water is 
underway regarding servicing and sustainability measures. 
[[page 54]]
Matter  Consideration  
The EIS will be supported by a Utility Services and Staging Plan identifying servicing 
requirements and any necessary adjustments. 
Bushfire Risk The site is mapped within a bushfire prone buffer area. A Bushfire Risk Assessment 
will be prepared as part of the EIS to identify hazards and appropriate mitigation 
measures. 
The assessment will address building design, siting and protection of critical 
infrastructure, together with operational measures such as asset protection zones, 
emergency access and firefighting water supply, in consultation with the RFS. 
Construction, 
Operation and 
Staging  
The development is proposed to occur in the following stages: 
▪ Stage 1: Site establishment , 
▪ Stage 2: Remediation (if required ), 
▪ Stage 3: Construction , and  
▪ Stage 4: Operation .  
Further detail on construction methodology, sequencing and operational staging 
will be provided in the EIS. 
Engagement An Engagement Outcomes Report will be provided as part of the EIS. The report will 
outline the engagement carried out to date, the outcomes of that engagement and 
how it has informed the proposal.  
The report will also outline: 
▪ Issues raised by surrounding landowners and stakeholders , 
▪ Project responses to those issues , and  
▪ Proposed future community and stakeholder engagement .  
7.2 Matters Requiring No Further Assessment in the EIS 
This section of the report identifies the following matters that do not require further assessment in the EIS. 
Each of these matters was considered within the Scoping Report but considered unlikely to result in 
significant impacts that warrant further assessment.  
▪ Flooding: The site is not located within a flood planning area or between the flood planning area and 
the PMF on Council’s Flood Mapping. Previous flood modelling undertaken for local DAs confirmed creek 
flood levels are at least 2 metres below the finished site lev els established under MOD-23-00703. 
Investigations under MP06_0225 also found no adverse flooding impacts on Lot 7. Accordingly, further 
assessment is not required.   
▪ Non-Aboriginal Heritage : The site is not a heritage -listed item and is not located within a heritage 
conservation area. Further to this, no heritage items are located within the vicinity of the site and as 
such, a Heritage Impact Statement will not be required.  
▪ Acid Sulfate Soils:  The site is not within an area of  known acid sulfate soil occurrence . No indicators of 
acid sulfate soils  were observed during the field investigations undertaken for previous applications, 
including DA-21-01557. A desktop Acid Sulfate Soils Risk Assessment has been prepared (refer  Appendix 
D) which confirms that it is unlikely that adverse acid sul fate soils exist within Lot 7. As such, an Acid 
Sulfate Soils Management Plan will not be required.  
 
[[page 55]]
8 Conclusion 
This Scoping Report has outlined preliminary information regarding the proposed development of a data 
centre at 1 Kangaroo Avenue, Eastern Creek. The report has outlined preliminary information regarding the 
site and proposal, identified the relevant strategic and statutory context, summarised the approach to 
engagement with stakeholders and, identified the scale and nature of the impacts of the project.  
The proposal is declared SSD under Section 25, Schedule 1 of Planning Systems SEPP. We trust that the 
information detailed in this Scoping Report is sufficient to enable the Secretary to issue SEARs for the 
preparation of an EIS.  
  
[[page 56]]
Appendix A Concept Architectural 
Plans  
[[page 57]]
Appendix B Design Report 
[[page 58]]
Appendix C Indicative Renders  
 
[[page 59]]
Appendix D Acid Sulfate Soils Risk 
Assessment 
[[page 60]]
Appendix E Preliminary VIA Advice  
[[page 61]]
Appendix F Technical Note -
Infrastructure Servicing, and Plant 
Equipment 
[[page 62]]
Appendix G SEARs Technical 
Assessment Methodology 
 
 
 
 
 