[[page 1]]
 
xxxx   1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Scoping Report 
12 Frederick Street, St Leonards  
August 2026 
Prepared for: Gateway Capital  
[[page 2]]
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards   2 
 
 
Urbis staff responsible for this report were: 
Director Jacqueline Parker 
Associate Director Erin Dethridge 
Senior Consultant Zara Bennett 
Consultant Georgia Gibson 
Project Code P0061172 
Report Number V3 - Final 
 
 
  
Acknowledgment of Country 
Urbis acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands we operate on. 
We recognise that First Nations sovereignty was never ceded and respect First Nations peoples continuing 
connection to these lands, waterways and ecosystems for over 60,000 years. 
We pay our respects to First Nations Elders, past and present. 
 
Urbis is committed to incorporating our respect for First Nations cultures, peoples and storytelling in our work 
across the Country. We are proud to have partnered with Darug Nation artist, Hayley Pigram, and to profile her 
artwork - Sacred River Dreaming. 
 
 
The river is the symbol of the Dreaming 
and the journey of life. The circles and 
lines represent people meeting and 
connections across time and space. When 
we are working in different places, we can 
still be connected and work towards the 
same goal. 
All information supplied to Urbis in order to conduct this research has been treated in the strictest confidence.  
It shall only be used in this context and shall not be made available to third parties without client authorisation.  
Confidential information has been stored securely and data provided by respondents, as well as their identity, has been 
treated in the strictest confidence and all assurance given to respondents have been and shall be fulfilled. 
 
 
© Urbis Ltd 
50 105 256 228 
 
All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced without prior permission. 
You must read the important disclaimer appearing within the body of this report. 
 
urbis.com.au 

[[page 3]]
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards   3 
 
 
Contents 
1 Introduction 4 
1.1 Applicant Details 4 
1.2 Project Overview 5 
2 Project Background 7 
2.1 Site and Consent History 7 
2.2 Project Rationale 8 
3 Strategic Context 10 
3.1 Key Features 10 
3.2 Project Justification 13 
3.3 Cumulative Impacts with Future Projects 17 
4 The Project 18 
4.1 Proposed Development 18 
5 Statutory Context 23 
5.1 Statutory Requirements 23 
5.2 Pre-Conditions 24 
5.3 Mandatory Considerations 25 
6 Community Engagement 29 
6.1 Engagement Undertaken 29 
6.2 Future Engagement to be Carried out by the 
Applicant 29 
7 Proposed Assessment of Impacts 31 
7.1 Matters Requiring Further Assessment in the 
EIS 31 
7.2 Matters Requiring No Further Assessment in 
the EIS 36 
8 Conclusion 37 
Disclaimer 38 
 
Figures 
Figure 1 Site Location and Local Context ....................... 6 
Figure 2 Local Context ............................................................... 10 
Figure 3 Site Photos ...................................................................... 11 
Figure 4 Proposed Concept Plans ................................... 20 
Figure 5 3D Massing Diagrams ........................................... 21 
Figure 6 Local Context and Sensitive Receivers Map
 ................................................................................................................. 31 
 
Pictures 
Picture 1 View of site from Frederick Street looking 
south east ........................................................................................... 11 
Picture 2 View of site from corner of Frederick 
Street and Reserve Road .......................................................... 11 
Picture 3 View of site from Reserve Road looking 
north ....................................................................................................... 11 
Picture 4 View of site from Frederick Street looking 
south ...................................................................................................... 11 
Picture 5 Indicative Floor Plans .......................................... 20 
Picture 6 Proposed Development - Cross-Sections
 ................................................................................................................ 20 
Picture 7 View from Frederick Street, looking south-
west ....................................................................................................... 21 
Picture 8 View from intersection of Frederick Street 
and Reserve Road, looking north-east .......................... 21 
Picture 9 Aerial view looking south ................................. 22 
Picture 10 Aerial view, looking north-west .................. 22 
 
Tables 
Table 1 Applicant Details ........................................................... 4 
Table 2 Site and Project Overview ...................................... 5 
Table 3 Previous Development Consents ..................... 7 
Table 4 Project Rationale ......................................................... 8 
Table 5 Key Features of Site and Locality ...................... 11 
Table 6 Strategic Context ...................................................... 13 
Table 7 Nearby Projects ............................................................ 17 
Table 8 Identification of Statutory Requirements for 
the Project ....................................................................................... 23 
Table 9 Pre-Conditions ........................................................... 25 
Table 10 Mandatory Considerations .............................. 26 
Table 11 Matters requiring assessment in the EIS ... 31 
 
[[page 4]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Introduction 4 
 
 
1 Introduction 
This Scoping Report has been prepared on behalf of Gateway Capital (the Applicant). This Scoping Report 
constitutes a request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements (SEARs) for a proposed data 
centre at 12 Frederick Street, St Leonards (the site). The SEARS will guide the preparation of an Environmental 
Impact Statement (EIS) that will accompany a State Significant Development Application (SSDA) for 
assessment by the Department of Planning, Housing and Infrastructure (DPHI).  
The request relates to a data centre that has a maximum power demand of 81 megawatts (MW). Therefore, 
the proposed development is classified as State Significant Development (SSD) pursuant to Section 25 of 
Schedule 1 of State Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021 (Planning Systems SEPP).  
Due to the nature and classification of the development, it was determined that the project requires a 
Scoping Report to support the issuance of SEARS.  
The purpose of this report is to: 
▪ Describe the project in simple terms,  
▪ Indicate early community views on the project and identify what engagement will be carried out during 
the preparation of the EIS, and 
▪ Identify the key matters requiring further assessment in the EIS and the proposed approach to 
assessing each of these matters.  
This Scoping Report is supported by the following documents:  
▪ Appendix A: Concept Architectural Plans  
▪ Appendix B: Aboriginal Objects Due Diligence Assessment   
1.1 Applicant Details 
The applicant details for the proposed development are listed in the following table. 
Table 1 Applicant Details 
Proponent Proponent name 
Full name(s)  Gateway Capital Holdings Pty Ltd 
Postal address Level 48, Australia Square, Sydney NSW 2000 
ABN 38 644 814 228 
Nominated Contact Paul Jewiss 
[email redacted] 
[mobile redacted] 
 
  
[[page 5]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Introduction 5 
 
 
1.2 Project Overview 
Table 2 Site and Project Overview  
Matter Description 
Street Address 12 Frederick Street, St Leonards 
Legal Description Lot 2 DP 1239553 
Site Area 1.82 ha 
Development Area The proposed development footprint is approximately 8,391 sqm. 
LGA  Willoughby Council 
Existing development The site contains two large multi-storey warehouse, indoor recreation and 
office buildings, car parking, loading areas and associated hardstand. The 
site currently has two driveways to Reserve Road and one driveway to 
Frederick Street (adjacent to the eastern boundary). 
The Project 
Project Description Construction, fit-out and operation of a 5-storey 16,634 sqm GFA data 
centre, including ancillary office space, parking, landscaping and services. 
A map of the site in its regional setting is provided at Figure 1. 
  
[[page 6]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Introduction 6 
 
 
Figure 1 Site Location and Local Context  
 
Source: Urbis, 2025 

[[page 7]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Project Background 7 
 
 
2 Project Background 
2.1 Site and Consent History 
The site has been historically used for commercial unit, indoor recreation and warehouse purposes. Previous 
consents for the site detailed in Table 3. 
Table 3 Previous Development Consents  
DA Number Description Date of issue 
CDC-2025/250 Internal alterations to parts of existing office 
and warehouse areas of Unit 7 
Approved by private certifier on 25 
June 2025. OC issued under OC-
2026/50 on 18 February 2026.  
DA-2021/295/A Unit D – Modification to delete condition 4 
regarding the trial period and amend 
condition 6 to permit up to 60 students at any 
one time. 
Approved on 11 January 2024. 
CDC-2022/276/A Amended Development - Internal alteration 
to Studio 5 only. 
Approved by private certifier on 14 
December 2022. 
CDC-2022/359 Internal alterations to warehouse and 
ancillary office- 2 x Meeting Rooms to the 
Upper Level Unit 6, installation of racking that 
is not otherwise exempt development and the 
installation of a preliminary room/structure 
within warehouse. 
Approved by private certifier on 28 
September 2022. 
CDC-2022/377 Alterations and additions to the existing 
building comprising of non-combustible 
screens to form the façade of the building. 
Approved by private certifier on 10 
October 2022. 
CDC-2022/276 UNIT D- Proposed internal alterations and 
additions to warehouse and industrial 
warehouse for the purposes of a dance 
studio. 
Approved by private certifier on 29 
July 2022. 
CDC-2022/259 Internal alterations to existing warehouse 
including voluntary fire safety upgrade works. 
Approved on 21 July 2022. 
DA-2022/183 Fire Safety upgrades within the existing multi-
unit industrial estate including installation of 
sprinkler tanks, above ground hydrant line, 
booster pump room and associated works 
Approved on 21 June 2022. 
DA-2022/142 Removal of existing signage and erection of 
fourteen (14) business identification signage 
and associated works. 
Approved on 25 May 2022. 
DA-2021/295 Unit D – Change of use from warehouse and 
distribution centre to indoor recreation facility 
comprising of a dance studio operating 
Monday to Friday 8am-9pm, Saturday 
Approved on 26 November 2021. 
[[page 8]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Project Background 8 
 
 
DA Number Description Date of issue 
8.30am-6pm and Sunday and public 
holidays 10am-2pm. 
DA-2016/211 Demolition of existing structures and 
subdivision of land. 
Documents are not available on the Council 
DA tracker to review. 
Approved in parts on  
28 December 2016 and  
29 June 2017. 
DA-2009/306 Occupation and fit-out for Unit A, Levels 2 and 
3 for warehouse with ancillary offices. 
Approved on 11 August 2009. 
DA-2007/397 Use of Unit 6 as a factory for commercial 
printing including plant & associated signage. 
Approved on 27 June 2007. 
DA-2006/334 Unit A - Alterations to existing warehouse unit 
with ancillary offices. 
Approved on 12 May 2006. 
DA-2003/133 Unit 2: Change of use to Australian Surgical 
Design & Manufacture P/L. 
Approved on 20 March 2003. 
DA-2001/1839 Change of use from warehouse & distribution 
of filing products to warehouse & distribution 
of health care products & associated 
ancillary office use 
Approved on 7 December 2001. 
2.2 Project Rationale 
The rationale for the project including need and site selection is described in Table 4 below. 
Table 4 Project Rationale  
Project Detail Commentary 
Project need ▪ Supports the NSW Government’s ambition to be a leading digital economy in the 
Asia-Pacific region,   
▪ Improves the national performance of data networks available for the purposes 
of artificial intelligence, automation, analytics and security,   
▪ Generates direct employment in construction, operations, and maintenance, as 
well as indirect jobs in technology, engineering, and security,  
▪ Reduces reliance on overseas facilities, strengthening local infrastructure that 
directly contributes to the digital economy,   
▪ Improves the resilience and reliability of digital infrastructure during network 
disruptions or failures, and,  
▪ Encourages global investment in the growing industrial precincts of NSW.   
Site selection The site was selected based on the following criteria established by the Applicant:  
▪ Suitable zoning within a n industrial precinct with limited nearby residential 
sensitive receivers,  
▪ Within proximity to travel and transport networks  such as bus, rail and metro 
services for construction and operational staff,  
▪ In a location with high resilience and lower sensitivity to amenity impacts,  
▪ Close to the Augrid  Sydney East substation for power supply,  
[[page 9]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Project Background 9 
 
 
Project Detail Commentary 
▪ In an area less susceptible to natural disasters or other shocks.  
The site was determined as an appropriate location for the proposed development 
based on the aforementioned criteria. Additionally, the site is located within an 
established industrial precinct that benefits from proximity to established transport 
networks, and key supporting infrastructure such as water and electricity.  
 
 
[[page 10]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Strategic Context 10 
 
 
3 Strategic Context 
3.1 Key Features 
The site is approximately 5km from the Sydney Central Business District (CBD) and is located within the 
Willoughby LGA. 
The site is within the Artarmon industrial area, which supports a significant proportion of the Lower North 
Shore’s industrial and urban services. The site is also in close proximity to the Gore Hill Technology Park which 
comprises high-technology and innovation uses, including other data centre developments. The location of 
the site is illustrated in Figure 2. Photographs of the current site condition are provided in Figure 3.  
Figure 2 Local Context  
 
Source: Urbis 

[[page 11]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Strategic Context 11 
 
 
Figure 3 Site Photos 
  
Picture 1 View of site from Frederick Street looking south  east Picture 2 View of site from corner of F rederick Street and Reserve Road  
  
Picture 3 View of site from Reserve Road looking north 
Source: Google Maps, 2026  
Picture 4 View of site from Frederick Street looking south  
 
The key features of the site which have the potential to impact or be impacted by the proposed development 
are summarised in the table below. 
Table 5 Key Features of Site and Locality 
Descriptor Site Detail 
Land Configuration 
and topography 
The site is a regular shaped single allotment with an area of 1.859ha. The site has 
the following dimensions: 
▪ North: 73.3m  
▪ South: 77.48m  
▪ East: 242.08m  
▪ West: 239.7m   
The site’s ground level results from  a significant ‘cut’ from the level of Reserve 
Road and maintains the level of the entrance at Frederick Street throughout the 
developed area of the site. 
The boundary of the site adjoining Reserve Road rises from Frederick Street 
southbound toward the Royal North Shore hospital car park entrance, where the 
elevation rise levels off. 
Surrounding Land Use The immediately surrounding land uses are summarised below:  
▪ North: To the north of the site across Frederick Street is a bulky goods retail 
premises known as ‘Home HQ’. Land further north comprises a Bunnings, 

[[page 12]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Strategic Context 12 
 
 
Descriptor Site Detail 
self-storage facility, childcare centres and a mix of industrial activities, 
bounded by the M2 Motorway approximately 500m north. 
▪ East: The eastern boundary of the site adjoins three separate warehouses 
and an Australia Post sorting facility. Land uses further east include a 
medical clinic (approximately 100m east along Frederick Street), a mix of 
industrial activities and office buildings. The nearest residential uses are 
located approximately 230m east of the site across the  North Shore railway.  
▪ West: To the west of the site across Reserve Road is a 7 -8 storey car park 
for the Royal North Shore Hospital and a mix of industrial activities. Further 
west is a concrete mixing facility and other industrial uses, including the 
NEXTDC S3 and Keppel data centres , and construction of the Goodman 
Lanceley Place data centre . 
▪ South: The Rockwell Medical Centre adjoins the site to the south and The 
Royal North Shore Hospital campus is located further south of the site. The 
TAFE NSW St Leonards campus is further to the southwest of the site.  
Natural Environment Vegetation (including native trees) is located within the frontage to Reserve Road 
and some scattered trees adjacent to the north and east boundaries. 
Built Environment The site contains a single large multi-storey warehouse, indoor recreation and 
office buildings, car parking, loading areas and associated hardstand.  
Site Access and road 
network 
The site benefits from good access to public infrastructure, including to the Pacific 
Highway arterial road approximately 400m west of the site and the M2 Motorway 
approximately 550m north of the site at the Longueville Road interchange. The St 
Leonards Train Station is approximately 600m south-east of the site. 
The site is currently accessible via two driveways on Reserve Road and one 
driveway to Frederick Street (adjacent to the eastern boundary). 
Easements and 
Covenants 
The Deposited Plan indicates the site is affected by the following easements and 
restrictions:  
▪ 12m wide easement (G) for services adjacent to eastern boundary.  
▪ 12m wide easement (F) for right of access adjacent to eastern boundary.  
▪ 2.5m wide easement (J) for drainage of water adjacent to eastern 
boundary. 
▪ Variable width easement (X) for support along the western and northern 
parts of the site. 
▪ Covenant (V) related to the drainage of all surface and stormwater and/or 
wastewater.  
▪ Easement (Y) for drainage along most of the eastern boundary.  
▪ 1.83m wide easement (Z) for drainage adjacent to the eastern boundary.  
▪ Variable width easement (L1) for right of way located centrally within the 
frontage to Reserve Road.  
▪ 6.91m wide easement (L2) for electricity purposes located centrally within 
the frontage to Reserve Road. 
A land surveyor and/or property lawyer should be engaged to review the 
relevant site restrictions in further detail and provide interpretive advice 
which clarifies their implications for the proposed data centre.  
[[page 13]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Strategic Context 13 
 
 
Descriptor Site Detail 
Hazards/Risks A Section 10.7(2) and (5) planning certificate for the site was obtained from 
Willoughby City Council dated 25 June 2025. 
Based on a review of the planning certificate, the site is within Council’s flood 
planning area and is subject to flood related development controls. 
3.2 Project Justification 
Table 6 below provides a review of the relevant strategic documentation relevant to the site.  
Table 6 Strategic Context 
Plan  Detail 
Greater Sydney Region 
Plan – A Metropolis of 
Three Cities 
The Greater Sydney Region Plan: A Metropolis of Three Cities – connecting people 
(the Regional Plan) is the overarching strategic plan that seeks to shape future 
development for the Sydney metropolitan area over the next 40 years. Under the 
Region Plan, the site is located within the Eastern City District, which forms as part 
of the Eastern Harbour City.   
The project is consistent with the Regional Plan for these reasons:  
▪ Objective 1. Infrastructure supports the three cities  
The proposal will improve accessibility and supply of new digital storage 
infrastructure to Sydney which is identified as part of Sydney’s economic corridor. 
The proposal supports the major economic driver of digital technology and 
constitutes critical support infrastructure within a rapidly evolving, digitally 
dependent society. The proposed data centre development would provide cloud 
storage to available clients, allowing for more efficient operations on end-to-end 
business models.  
▪ Objective 7. Jobs and skills for the city.  
The proposal encourages employment-generating opportunities and economic 
prosperity, which has positive influences on the wider locality. The site is zoned for 
industrial purposes with data centres as a permissible use. The proposed data 
centre use will support the broader economy, digital security and sovereignty of 
data storage in proximity to key employment areas.   
▪ Objective 24. Economic sectors are targeted for success.  
The proposal aligns with the vision of the objective as it will support the continued 
growth of the Eastern Economic Corridor as a hub of employment activity through 
co-location of key digital infrastructure with innovative technology businesses. 
Increased data storage capacity responds to changing technologies, embracing 
opportunities to expand startup and digital innovation that allow people to work 
remotely as well increate digital security and sovereignty of data storage. 
Eastern District Plan The proposed data centre is consistent with the Eastern City District Plan in that it 
supports the Plan’s focus on reinforcing St Leonards and Artarmon as a strategic 
centre for knowledge-intensive and innovation-driven employment. The project 
contributes to a diversified and resilient economic base by enabling digital 
infrastructure that underpins health, education, research and professional 
services already clustered in the precinct. It makes efficient use of well-located 
urban land close to existing infrastructure and public transport, aligns with 
objectives to deliver jobs close to homes, and supports the Plan’s emphasis on 
productivity, sustainability and the transition to a more digitally enabled economy. 
[[page 14]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Strategic Context 14 
 
 
Plan  Detail 
Draft Sydney Plan  The draft Sydney Plan is the NSW Government’s long-term strategic framework 
guiding Sydney’s growth to 2056. The Plan emphasises transport-oriented 
development and the co-location of jobs, services and housing to reduce travel 
times and support local communities. The site is within identified employment 
lands in the North Shore of Sydney, contributing to Sydney’s economy through 
manufacturing, construction, warehousing, transport and logistics.  
The proposed data centre aligns with the following objectives of the draft Plan:  
▪ Response 4: Grow well -located jobs   
The development locates high -value digital infrastructure near major 
transport corridors, freight networks and high technology reliant industries , 
supporting employment clusters and efficient access for workers and 
service providers.  
▪ Response 5: Align infrastructure with planned growth   
Data centres rely on high- capacity power, fibre connectivity and reliable 
servicing already available or planned in the precinct, supporting orderly 
development and infrastructure investment sequencing.  
▪ Response 8: Secure an ongoing pipeline of productive industrial lands   
By accommodating a data centre within a planned employment area, the 
proposal supports the retention, diversification and long -term viability of 
industrial land uses within Sydney. 
Industrial Lands Action 
Plan 
In January 2025, the NSW Government released the Industrial Lands Action Plan. 
This comprehensive framework supports the development and operation of data 
centres, among other industrial uses. The plan identifies key challenges facing the 
industrial sector in NSW such as escalating land values, increased rents, and low 
vacancies. The Action Plan sets out the initiatives to be undertaken by the NSW 
Government to address industrial land supply. This involves delivering a 
statewide industrial land categorisation policy, making planning policy 
amendments for greater flexibility, refining the industrial land supply monitor and 
coordinating infrastructure investment to support long-term economic growth 
over the next two decades. 
Two key action areas identified by the plan are:  
1. Deliver a statewide policy for industrial lands based on 
the categorisation of areas and precincts as state significant, regionally 
significant, locally significant, and other industrial lands: 
A new Industrial lands policy will set a framework for the use of state, regionally 
and locally significant industrial lands through targeted planning and policy 
interventions, ensuring they are development-ready and strategically located 
near transport and freight networks. The site is specifically outlined within an area 
of regionally significant industrial lands. It will be informed by a sustainable supply 
pipeline by auditing current lands, determining take-up rates, and coordinating 
infrastructure investment. It is intended that the plan also adapts to the evolving 
needs of industries, supporting diversification, innovation, and new employment 
opportunities. This comprehensive approach is intended to ensure that NSW is 
well-prepared to meet future industrial demands, fostering economic growth and 
supporting emerging sectors. 
2. Investigate planning and policy interventions to support intensification of 
state and regionally significant industrial lands: 
[[page 15]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Strategic Context 15 
 
 
Plan  Detail 
The Industrial Lands Action Plan identified the intention to investigate planning 
and policy interventions to support the intensification of State and regionally 
significant industrial lands. Once these lands are categorised, the plan calls for 
examining whether amended planning controls, such as changes to height and 
floor space ratios, are needed to maximise their use. This approach ensures that 
industrial lands are utilised efficiently, supporting the needs of various industries. 
The framework outlined in the Industrial Lands Action Plan is seen as a positive 
and is welcomed given the assurances it will provide in supporting a data centre 
proposal for the site. Overall, the strategy aligns with the needs of data centres by 
providing for a robust policy framework, ensuring development readiness, and 
supporting infrastructure investment, thereby fostering an environment conducive 
to technological advancement and economic growth.  
Willoughby Local 
Strategic Planning 
Statement 2020 
The Willoughby Local Strategic Planning Statement (LSPS) 2020 sets the strategic 
vision for land use planning in the LGA. The following actions and directions are 
relevant to the proposed data centre in the Artarmon Industrial area. 
▪ The LSPS notes that the industrial area in Artarmon is strategically located 
and a key hub for urban services on the north shore of Sydney.  
▪ Key Directive 10 ‘ Protecting the role of Willoughby’s industrial lands as 
urban service hubs for the Lower North Shore ’ details the significance of 
industrial lands in the area and seeks to ensure no industrial zoned land in 
Artarmon is lost.  
▪ It is recognised that Artarmon supports high technology uses already, as 
such the inference placed on protecting industrial areas is extended to the 
ongoing protection of the high use technology centres including data 
centres. 
▪ In line with the North District Plan Priority N11 to retain and manage industrial 
and urban services land, Council will protect Artarmon’s critical urban 
services and employment role by:  
– Maintaining the industrial zoning.  
– Supporting proposals that intensify the area’s urban services role and 
employment consistent with the zoning.  
– Consider health and education uses on suitable sites on a case -by-
case basis in close proximity to  the existing health and education 
precinct while retaining the underlying industrial zoning.  
▪ Under Priority 18 ‘ Leveraging planned major infrastructure investments and 
projects to support growth’ the LSPS also notes that further examination is 
required for options to implement upgraded information technology links in 
the Eastern Economic Corridor in order to foster the increased creativity 
and innovation required to sustain growth in employment opportunities in 
the Corridor.  
Willoughby Industrial 
Lands Strategy 2036 
The Willoughby Industrial Lands Strategy, released by Willoughby City Council in 
October 2020, informs the priorities of Council in relation to the preservation of 
industrial lands. 
The strategy advocates for the retention of industrial facilities and requires careful 
consideration of the redevelopment and rezoning of the industrial land. The 
following directions are relevant to the proposal: 
[[page 16]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Strategic Context 16 
 
 
Plan  Detail 
▪ 2.2.3 Capacity, Demand and Supply:  There are concerns around future 
shortages in knowledge intensive and population serving floorspace 
including high technology and ancillary health uses.  
The proposed development supports a new high technology and light 
industry data centre use that has the capacity to support the current and 
future demands for the industry within Artarmon. The proposed data centre 
directly responds to this need by delivering specialised digital infrastructure 
that is increasingly essential to the operation of advanced manufacturing, 
health, professional services and technology businesses. The sites location  
is considered a suitable area for a facility for data storage and security to 
support the wider St Leonards and Artarmon area to ensure its future 
success as a resilient and competitive employment hub in an evolving 
industrial economy.  
▪ 2.2.6 Key Considerations for the Artarmon Industrial Area: To meet the 
demand for high technology and ancillary health uses, subdivisions and 
upper floors of industrial and ancillary floor space should be encouraged to 
generate greater employment density.  
While data centres typically generate fewer on ‑site operational jobs than 
traditional industrial uses, this proposal will be considered in terms of total 
employment impact, including:  
– Direct operational and facilities management roles supported on site.  
– Indirect employment supported through the provision of secure, local 
data storage and processing for businesses within the Eastern 
Economic Corridor and Greater Sydney.  
– The retention and attraction of high‑ value industries that rely on 
proximate digital infrastructure to operate efficiently.  
Importantly, the proposal does not preclude the broader precinct from 
continuing to deliver diverse employment opportunities. Rather, it seeks to 
contribute to a balanced industrial ecosystem where traditional 
employment ‑generating uses coexist with enabling infrastructure that 
supports employment growth elsewhere in the precinct.  
▪ 2.2.7 Artarmon Industrial Area and State Infrastructure Projects:  A number 
of sites in the Artarmon Industrial Area have been purchased for State 
infrastructure projects on both permanent and temporary bases. This has 
resulted in the displacement of employment generating businesses in 
these areas.  
The proposal will deliver a data centre which provides strong economic 
and social benefit to the Artarmon Industrial area. The project provides 
critical infrastructure resilience and investment certainty within the 
precinct, helping to offset broader employment displacement pressures by 
supporting the continued operation of existing businesses.  
▪ 2.2.8 Traffic and Transport:  Continued investment into surrounding road 
improvements is vital to both supplying the demand for freight vehicle 
movement and the movement of residents and employees. Effective 
management of the existing transport infrastructure is also required to 
facilitate the safe and efficient movement of all parties and assets.  
A Traffic Impact Assessment will be required to confirm the proposal will 
have acceptable impacts on the road network.  While the operational traffic 
[[page 17]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Strategic Context 17 
 
 
Plan  Detail 
profile of a data centre differs from traditional industrial uses, it generally 
results in lower daily vehicle movements . 
 
3.3 Cumulative Impacts with Future Projects 
The site is located within St Leonards industrial area. Approved and likely future developments which may be 
relevant in the cumulative impact assessment of the proposal are summarised in the following table. 
Table 7 Nearby Projects 
Project Address Project Description Status 
Lanceley Place Data 
Centre 
SSD-66777221, approved 
by DPHI on 11 April 2025 
2-8 Lanceley 
Place and 14 
Campbell 
Street, 
Artarmon 
Construction, fit-out and operation of a 10-
storey data centre utilising 80MVA of power, 
including ancillary office space, parking, 
landscaping, utilities and installation of 
services and drainage infrastructure 
Under construction 
NEXTDC S3 Data Centre 
DA-2019/79, approved 
by Sydney North 
Planning Panel on 21 
December 2019 
2 Broadcast 
Way, 
Artarmon 
Construction of an 8-storey data centre, 
car parking, landscaping and associated 
works. 
 
Operational  
NEXTDC S6 Data Centre 
DA-2018/273, approved 
by Sydney North 
Planning Panel on 21 
December 2018 
3 Broadcast 
Way, 
Artarmon 
Construction of a high technology industrial 
building for use as a purpose built data 
centre. 
Operational 
The potential cumulative impacts of the project will be addressed in the EIS in accordance with the DPHI 
Assessing Cumulative Impacts guidelines. 
 
[[page 18]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  The Project 18 
 
 
4 The Project 
This section outlines the key features of the proposed development, including the project area, the 
conceptual physical layout and design (including likely mitigation measures), the main land use activities 
and the likely timing for delivery of the project. 
It is to be noted that the design is in the preliminary stage, with further design optimisation and technical 
solutions under evaluation.  
Indicative layout plans are provided in Figure 4 below, and 3D massing diagrams are provided in Figure 5 
which show the proposed data centre massing relative to the site’s built form context.  
4.1 Proposed Development 
Key Element  Proposal  
Project Area The site is a regular shaped single allotment and has a total area of 
approximately 1.82ha.   
Project Description The project includes the construction and operation of a data centre comprising:  
▪ Earthworks, excavation,  demolition. 
▪ Construction and operation of a data centre development with ancillary 
office, comprising: 
– Five (5) storeys  
– 11 data halls  
– 44 Gensets to service data halls  
– Substation 
▪ On-site car parking and loading areas.    
▪ Utility and service connections.  
▪ Associated landscaping.  
Land Use Data Centre with ancillary office space .  
Gross Floor Area (GFA) 16,634 sqm  
Building Height To be confirmed  
Floor Space Ratio (FSR) 0.91:1 
Power Consumption 81 MW 
Power Usage 
Effectiveness (PUE) 
Anticipated PUE of < 1.3 
Water Usage 
Effectiveness 
Under consideration in relation to water availability and evaluating  multiple 
heat rejection and cooling options.  
Diesel Storage Volume Allowance is for a fue l storage capacity of 750kL, subject to detailed design.   
Indicative heat 
rejection configuration  
Air cooled chillers, dry coolers, trim chillers hous ed in a rooftop outdoor plant 
area. 
Backup Generator Data Centre Power rated generator sets comprising a combination of indoor 
and outdoor diesel gensets.  
[[page 19]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  The Project 19 
 
 
Key Element  Proposal  
Utilities Substation: 
Electricity will be supplied from two (2) x 33 kV substation s within the site.  
Operations and 
Management 
The facility will be constructed and operated by Gateway Capital and 
Lendlease. The site will operate on a 24- hour, 7 day a week basis.  
Existing Services and 
Infrastructure 
Existing services and infrastructure will be extended, adapted and augmented to 
meet the demands of the project. Power supply will be provided from the onsite 
substation that forms part of the data centre development as provided by 
Ausgrid. 
Concept architectural plans are included at Appendix A and shown in Figure 4 and Figure 5. 3D Massing 
Diagrams of the proposed development are provided at Figure 6. 
  
[[page 20]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  The Project 20 
 
 
Figure 4 Proposed Concept Plans 
 
Picture 5 Indicative Floor Plans 
 
Picture 6 Proposed Development -  Cross-Sections 
Source: Lendlease, 2026  
  

[[page 21]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  The Project 21 
 
 
Figure 5 3D Massing Diagrams 
 
Picture 7 View from Frederick Street, looking south- west 
 
Picture 8 View from intersection of Frederick Street and Reserve Road, looking north- east 

[[page 22]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  The Project 22 
 
 
 
Picture 9 Aerial view looking south  
 
Picture 10 Aerial view, looking north -west 
Source: Gateway Capital,  2026 

[[page 23]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Statutory Context 23 
 
 
5 Statutory Context 
This section of the report provides an overview of the key statutory requirements relevant to the site and the 
project, including:  
▪ NSW Biodiversity Act 2016 (BC Act); 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021 (Planning Systems SEPP ); 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021 ( T&I SEPP); 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Resilience and Hazards) 2021 ( R&H SEPP); 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Industry and Employment) 2021 ( I&E SEPP);  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 2022 (SB SEPP) 
▪ Willoughby Local Environmental Plan 2012  
Consideration is also required to be given to the following matters: 
5.1 Statutory Requirements 
The following table categorises and summarises the relevant requirements in accordance with the DPIE State 
Significant Development Guidelines. Each of these matters will be addressed in further detail within the future 
EIS. 
Table 8 Identification of Statutory Requirements for the Project 
Statutory Relevance Action 
Power to grant approval Under Schedule 1, Clause 25 of the Planning Systems SEPP, development for the 
purpose of a data centre that has a total power consumption of more than 15 
megawatts is classified as SSD as stated by the following:  
25 Data centres  
(1) Development for the purpose of storage premises used for the storage of 
data and related information technology hardware that has a total power 
consumption of more than the relevant amount.  
(2) In this section — relevant amount means—  
(a) for development in relation to which the relevant environmental assessment 
requirements are notified under the Act on or before 31 May 2023—10 
megawatts, or  
(b) for any other development—15 megawatts.  
The proposed data centre will have a total power consumption of 81 MW for the 
data halls and, accordingly, is to be assessed as an SSDA. 
Permissibility  The site is zoned E4 General Industrial in accordance with the WLEP. The proposal 
comprises the construction and operation of a data centre, which is a form of 
‘light industry’ and accordingly, is permissible with consent in the zone.   
Other approvals 
(General) 
The following Acts were considered but by virtue of the application being SSD 
and the nature of the proposal, no further approval is required under the 
following: 
▪ NSW National Parks & Wildlife Act 1974;  
An Aboriginal Objects Due Diligence Assessment has been prepared by 
Urbis which outlines that there are no known Aboriginal objects or places 
registered within the curtilage of the subject area and the site contains a 
[[page 24]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Statutory Context 24 
 
 
Statutory Relevance Action 
highly modified landscape. It confirms that no further investigation is 
required for the subject area and that the development will be subject to 
unexpected archaeological finds and human remains procedures being 
implemented. The Aboriginal Objects Due Dil igence finds that an 
Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Assessment is not required for this site. As 
such, it is requested that the SEARs does not require preparation of this 
report. Under section 90 of the National Parks & Wildlife Act 1974, an 
Aboriginal Heritage Impact Permit (AHIP) is not required for State 
Significant Development.   
▪ NSW Heritage Act 1977;  
The site is not affected by any heritage listings or draft heritage listings on 
the NSW State Heritage Register and therefore no approvals will be 
required under the Heritage Act 1977.   
▪ NSW Roads Act 19 93; 
The project will include vehicle crossovers connecting to a public road . If 
changes to the vehicular access points are proposed, resulting in new 
crossover locations, s138 approval will be required.  
▪ NSW Water Management Act 2000;  
The site is not located on waterfront land  and does not seek to obtain  a 
Water Access license.   
▪ NSW Rural Fire Service Act 1997;  
The site is not located on or in proximity to bushfire prone land.  
▪ NSW Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1997. 
Schedule 1 of the POEO Act identifies activities requiring an Environment 
Protection Licence (EPL ). Relevant to the project is chemical storage under 
Section 9. The anticipated volume of on- site diesel storage is to be 
confirmed. A POEO Licence will be obtained if the storage quantity 
exceeds the trigger threshold.  
▪ Commonwealth Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation 
Act 1999   
Under the EPBC Act, actions likely to significantly impact Matters of 
National Environmental Significance (MNES) must be referred to the 
Commonwealth Minister  for the Environment. Ecological advice will be 
sought to determine whether a BDAR or a waiver is appropriate, and the 
EIS will assess biodiversity impacts and identify mitigation measures 
accordingly. 
No requirements for other approvals have been identified at this stage. 
5.2 Pre-Conditions 
Table 9 outlines the pre-conditions to exercising the power to grant approval which are relevant to the 
project. 
 
 
 
 
[[page 25]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Statutory Context 25 
 
 
Table 9 Pre-Conditions 
Pre-conditions to Granting 
Consent  
Comment  
Section 4.24 of the EP&A Act – 
Concept Development 
Consent 
There is no concept proposal for the development site.   
Section 175 of the EP&A 
Regulation – Infrastructure 
and environmental impact 
assessment 
SEARs will be issued by the Secretary under section 175 of the EP&A 
Regulation and will identify the detailed information required by sections 
190 and 192, including a statement prepared by a Registered 
Environmental Assessment Practitioner (REAP). 
Section 66 of the EP&A 
Regulation – Contributions 
plans for certain areas in 
Sydney 
A consent authority cannot determine a development unless a 
contribution plan applies to the land. Contributions applicable to the 
development will be confirmed within the EIS. 
State Environmental Planning 
Policy (Transport and 
Infrastructure) 2021 
Clause 2.122 requires the consent authority to refer certain development 
with access to any road to TfNSW. It is noted that data centres are not 
outlined in Schedule 3 of the T&I SEPP. If the data centre use was classified 
as ‘industry’, the proposal does not exceed 20,000m2 in site area or GFA 
which is the referral trigger for ‘industry’ developments. As such referral to 
TfNSW Is not required under this clause.  
A Traffic Impact Assessment will be prepared for the EIS. 
State Environmental Planning 
Policy (Resilience and 
Hazards) 2021 
Section 4.6 requires the consent authority to be satisfied the land is 
suitable for the proposed use in its current or remediated state. Chapter 3 
requires an appropriate level of assessment for hazardous or offensive 
industries and consideration of potential impacts. A Preliminary Site 
Investigation and Detailed Site Investigation will be conducted to 
determine the presence and impacts of contamination and hazardous 
materials at the site.  
State Environmental Planning 
Policy (Biodiversity and 
Conservation) 2021 
Chapter 2 protects biodiversity values of trees and vegetation on site. 
Section 2.6 requires approval for clearing vegetation in non-rural areas 
and Section 2.15 requires a BDAR where clearing exceeds applicable 
thresholds. Ecological advice will be sought to determine the requirement 
of a BDAR or the applicability of a BDAR Waiver.   
State Environmental Planning 
Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 
2022 
A consent authority must be satisfied that the development has 
considered the relevant chapters of the SB SEPP. The EIS will consider 
Section 3.2 and Section 3.4 of the SEPP and be accompanied by an 
embodied emissions form. The development may also engage in a 
NABERS Energy Commitment Agreement, if required.  
5.3 Mandatory Considerations 
Table 10 outlines the relevant pre-conditions to exercising the power to grant approval and the section where 
these matters are addressed within the EIS. 
  
[[page 26]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Statutory Context 26 
 
 
Table 10 Mandatory Considerations 
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
Consideration under the EP&A Act and Regulations 
Section 1.3 The relevant objects of the EP&A Act will be addressed in the EIS  
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(i) 
Relevant environmental 
planning instrument 
All relevant EPIs will be addressed in the EIS. 
 
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(ii) 
Relevant draft environmental 
planning instrument 
The Draft Climate Change SEPP will be addressed in the EIS.  
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(iii) 
Relevant development control 
plan 
Relevant provisions of the Willoughby Development Control Plan 2022 
(DCP) will inform the design of the proposal and be considered in the EIS 
even though DCPs are not strictly a matter for consideration for State 
Significant Developments 
Section 4.15 (1)(a)(iiia) any 
planning agreement or draft 
planning agreement 
N/A 
Section 4.15(1)(b) the likely 
impacts of that development, 
including environmental 
impacts on both the natural 
and built environments, and 
social and economic impacts 
in the locality, 
The likely impacts of the development have been identified in Section 7 of 
this scoping report including those matters requiring further assessment 
in the EIS. 
Section 4.15(1)(c) The 
suitability of the site for the 
development 
An assessment of the suitability of the site will be undertaken within the EIS 
including whether the proposal fits within the locality and whether the site 
attributes are conducive to the proposed development.  
Section 4.15(1)(d) Any 
submissions made in 
accordance with the Act or 
regulations  
Early engagement will be undertaken with the community and agencies 
to ensure that the views are appropriately considered and detailed in the 
EIS. A detailed response to any submissions will be provided following 
lodgement and public exhibition of the EIS. 
Section 4.15(1)(2) The Public 
Interest 
The public interest of the project will be fully detailed and addressed 
within the EIS. Given the alignment of the project with Federal, State and 
local strategic policy it is considered that the project is in the public 
interest.  
Mandatory relevant considerations under EPIs 
Willoughby Local 
Environmental Plan 2022 
The site is zoned E4 General Industrial. 
A ‘data centre’ is defined as “a building or place the principal purpose of 
which is to collect, distribute, process or store electronic data using 
information technology.” 
Data centres are a type of ‘light industry’ and are permissible with consent 
in the E4 Zone.   
It is understood that the proposal includes office space ancillary to the 
main data centre operations. Planning Circular PS 21-008 (‘How to 
[[page 27]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Statutory Context 27 
 
 
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
characterise development’) outlines that an ancillary use is a use that is 
subordinate or subservient to the dominant purpose on the land. 
Accordingly, the office component is permitted as it is subservient to the 
primary data centre use. This is important as it is noted that ‘commercial 
premises’ is prohibited in the E4 Zone.  
The following other sections of the WLEP will be considered and addressed 
in the EIS:  
▪ Section 2.3 – Zone Objectives  
▪ Section 4.3 – Height of Buildings  
▪ Section 4.4 – Floor Space Ratio 
▪ Section 5.10 – Heritage Conservation  
▪ Section 5.21 – Flood Planning  
▪ Section 5.22 – Special Flood Considerations  
▪ Section 6.1 – Acid Sulfate Soils  
▪ Section 6.2 – Earthworks  
▪ Section 6.3 – Urban Heat 
State Environmental Planning 
Policy (Resilience and 
Hazards) 2021 
Chapter 3 of the R&H SEPP applies to development that may be a 
‘potentially hazardous industry’ and may be of relevance to a data centre 
proposal that comprises on-site fuel storage. A Hazard and Risk 
Assessment will be submitted as part of the SSDA.  
Section 4.6 of the R&H SEPP Contamination and remediation will be 
considered. A Detailed Site Investigation will be submitted as part of the 
SSDA.  
State Environmental Planning 
Policy (Transport and 
Infrastructure) 2021 
The T&I SEPP aims to facilitate effective delivery of infrastructure across 
the State by providing a consistent planning framework for infrastructure 
and the provision of services.  
The SEPP deals with traffic generating development and requires referral 
and concurrence of Transport for NSW (TfNSW) for certain development 
which is expected to generate significant traffic. Section 2.122 and 
Schedule 3 of the T&I SEPP identifies ‘traffic generating development’ 
which must be referred to the TfNSW for concurrence. 
The development is not considered traffic generating development.  
The SEPP also includes provisions governing development likely to affect 
an electricity transmission or distribution network. The requirements of 
clause 2.48 of the SEPP will be considered.  
State Environmental Planning 
Policy (Industry and 
Employment) 2021 (I&E SEPP) 
Chapter 3: Advertising & Signage. All signage will be required to consider 
the Schedule 5 criteria under the Industry & Employment SEPP. Signage 
details will be included in the SSDA. 
State Environmental Planning 
Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 
2022  
The SB SEPP aims to promote the development of environmentally 
sustainable buildings across NSW by establishing clear and consistent 
planning requirements. The SEPP encourages the integration of 
sustainable design principles, energy efficiency and resource 
conservation in building projects to support long-term environmental 
goals. 
[[page 28]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Statutory Context 28 
 
 
Statutory Reference Mandatory Consideration 
The EIS will consider Section 3.2 and Section 3.4 of the SEPP and be 
accompanied by an embodied emissions form. The development will also 
engage in a NABERS Energy Commitment Agreement, if required. 
Considerations under other legislation 
Biodiversity Conservation Act 
2016 Part 7 and Part 8 (2) 
(BCA) 
The BC Act protects native vegetation, species of threatened flora and 
fauna, endangered populations and endangered ecological communities 
and their habitats in NSW. 
Section 7.9 requires a development application for SSD to be 
accompanied by a Biodiversity Development Assessment Report (BDAR), 
unless it is determined that the proposed development is not likely to have 
any significant impact on biodiversity values. 
Given the presence of vegetation within the site, an ecologist will be 
engaged to confirm whether a BDAR waiver may be obtained for the site 
or whether a BDAR will be required for the development. 
Development Control Plan 
Willoughby Development 
Control Plan 2023 
Clause 2.10(1) of the Planning Systems SEPP provides that the provisions of 
Development Control Plans do not apply to SSD. 
Nevertheless, the project will  consider the following provisions of WDCP: 
▪ Part E – Industrial Development  
▪ Park F – Transport and Parking Management  
▪ Part G – Vegetation Management  
▪ Part I – Stormwater Management  
▪ Part J – Building Sustainability  
[[page 29]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Community Engagement 29 
 
 
6 Community Engagement 
The following sections of the report describe the engagement activities that are to be carried out during the 
preparation of the EIS. 
6.1 Engagement Undertaken 
Willoughby City Council 
A project briefing was held with Willoughby Council and the project team on 6 July 2026. The key themes 
raised in the meeting are as follows: 
▪ Built form, façade and architectural expression.  
▪ Heritage and visual impact response.  
▪ Landscaping, canopy coverage and the public domain.  
▪ Utilities and servicing.  
▪ Flood design.  
▪ Consultation considerations.  
The applicant will continue to consult with Council through the pre lodgement design development.   
NSW Department of Planning, Housing & Infrastructure  
A Scoping Meeting was held with DPHI Industry Assessments Team on 7 July 2026. The key themes raised in 
the meeting are as follows: 
▪ Consultation considerations  
▪ Indicative bulk and scale  
▪ Operational matters and characteristics  
▪ Project timing and staging 
▪ Local context and sensitive receivers  
The applicant will continue to consult with DPHI through the application’s progression.  
Royal North Shore Hospital  
The Applicant has made contact with Royal North Shore Hospital staff and is currently in the process of 
coordinating a meeting to discuss the draft plans. 
6.2 Future Engagement to be Carried out by the Applicant 
Community and stakeholder consultation will be undertaken in the preparation and assessment of the EIS 
including: 
▪ Key Stakeholders:  It is proposed to consult with the following stakeholders during the preparation of 
the EIS: 
– DPHI 
– Willoughby Council  
– Ausgrid 
– Sydney Water 
– Water NSW  
[[page 30]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Community Engagement 30 
 
 
– Fire and Rescue NSW  (FRNSW) 
– NSW Environmental Protection Authority ( EPA) 
– Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water (DCCEEW ); Water Group  
– DCCEEW Conservation Programs, Heritage and Regulation ( CPHR) 
– Royal North Shore Hospital  
– Registered Aboriginal Parties  
– Surrounding residents, businesses and local community groups.  
▪ Other Interested Stakeholders:  additional stakeholders may be identified during the preparation of the 
EIS.  
▪ Key Actions:  the following actions will be undertaken to keep the community informed regarding the 
project, obtain feedback from the community on the project and engage with stakeholders on the 
detailed assessment of key matters:  
– A dedicated engagement strategy will be prepared following the issue of SEARs.  
– Additional consultation actions may be identified following further engagement with key 
stakeholders and DPHI.  
– The EIS and supporting documentation will be placed on public exhibition, providing stakeholders 
with an additional opportunity to review the Project, including the final development plans and the 
detailed specialist studies and assessment reports accompan ying the final EIS.  
▪ The proposed actions are consistent with the community participation objectives in the Undertaking 
Engagement Guidelines for State Significant Projects. An engagement consultant will be responsible for 
monitoring, reviewing and adapting the effectiveness of the engagement strategy to encourage 
community participation in the Project.  
An Engagement Outcomes Report will be provided with the SSDA. 
  
[[page 31]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Proposed Assessment of Impacts 31 
 
 
7 Proposed Assessment of Impacts 
This section identifies the key impacts which will be further investigated and assessed within the EIS, including 
the proposed approach to assessing each of these matters. It also identifies the matters addressed in the 
scoping phase that are unlikely to result in significant impacts and do not warrant further consideration in the 
EIS. 
7.1 Matters Requiring Further Assessment in the EIS 
Table 11 outlines the relevant matters and impacts which will be addressed in detail within the EIS and has 
been informed by the site’s context and surrounding sensitive receiver locations as illustrated in Figure 6. The 
table outlines the matters and impacts that are likely to be of particular concern to the community and other 
stakeholders. The sensitive receiver locations will be reviewed as necessary by the relevant technical 
consultants.  
Figure 6 Local Context and Sensitive Receivers Map  
 
Source: Urbis, 2026 
Table 11 Matters requiring assessment in the EIS  
Matter  Consideration  
Statutory Context The EIS will demonstrate consistency with the relevant planning framework and 
approval pathway for the development. 
Estimated 
development cost 
and employment  
The estimated development cost (EDC) will be assessed and addressed within an 
EDC report. The EIS will also assess the employment generated by the proposal, 
including both direct and indirect job creation during construction and operation.  

[[page 32]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Proposed Assessment of Impacts 32 
 
 
Matter  Consideration  
Connection with 
Country 
All future development will consider the Connection to Country Framework 
prepared by the NSW GA. Connecting with Country Principles will inform the design 
of the building and landscaping.   
Design Quality The SEARs issued for the project will require that the development exhibit design 
quality. An assessment against the relevant matters for consideration will be 
undertaken in the Design Report and EIS. The project is not required to be reviewed 
by the State Design Review Panel (SDRP).   
Built Form, Urban 
Design and 
Landscaping 
The EIS will be accompanied by detailed Architectural Plans, a Design Report and 
Landscape Plans responding to the Better Placed framework. A BCA Compliance 
Report and Accessibility Report will also be prepared to demonstrate that the 
development can achieve compliance with relevant building and accessibility 
requirements. 
Noise & Vibration The development has the potential to generate operational and construction noise 
and vibration, including cumulative impacts with surrounding large-scale 
developments and nearby residential receivers. A Noise and Vibration Impact 
Assessment (NVIA) will be prepared as part of the EIS in accordance with the NSW 
EPA Noise Policy for Industry, Interim Construction Noise Guideline and Road Noise 
Policy.  
The NVIA will include background noise monitoring to characterise the existing 
acoustic environment and establish construction and operational noise criteria. 
Monitoring will comprise unattended measurements at representative locations 
over approximately seven days, supplemented by attended surveys to identify key 
noise sources and support data interpretation. Construction and operational noise 
levels will be predicted at the nearest sensitive receivers and assessed against 
relevant legislation, policies and standards.  
A 3D SoundPLAN model of the operational facility will be developed using plant 
sound power levels and site topography to demonstrate compliance with 
applicable noise limits. Where exceedances are identified, mitigation measures will 
be developed, tested and refined in consultation with the project team. The 
assessment will also inform mechanical and electrical design by establishing noise 
control requirements and maximum sound power levels for key plant including 
generators and chillers. 
Visual Visual impacts will be assessed in the EIS through the preparation of a Visual 
Impact Assessment (VIA). The VIA will assess the visibility, bulk and scale of the 
proposed development, including the effectiveness of building design, landscaping 
and associated site works in managing visual amenity. The VIA will be informed by 
fieldwork and photographic documentation and will include photomontages 
prepared from representative viewpoints to test the height, form and scale of the 
proposal within both immediate and wider visual contexts. Key viewpoints identified 
for assessment include locations within the public domain and nearby hospital 
areas, with viewpoints to be included where required to assess bulk and scale. 
Air Quality An Air Quality Impact Assessment (AQIA) will assess construction and operational 
air quality impacts, noting the site’s location within an industrial area near existing 
emission sources including waste and concrete processing facilities. The AQIA will 
include assessment of construction phase dust emissions and operational 
emissions from mechanical plant and generator testing using plume dispersion 
modelling, covering routine testing, likely emission events and worst case scenarios.  
[[page 33]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Proposed Assessment of Impacts 33 
 
 
Matter  Consideration  
The AQIA will be prepared in accordance with EPA guidelines and will identify 
appropriate mitigation, monitoring and management measures based on the 
modelling outcomes.  
Access & Transport Increases in traffic are expected alongside the proposed development in the 
construction phase but is anticipated to reduce from the previous use during the 
operational phase. A Traffic Impact Assessment (TIA) to assess key traffic 
considerations in relation to the site and its development will be obtained and 
evaluated in the EIS. Existing and estimated future traffic conditions, parking, and 
access as well as the impact on surrounding road capacity and pedestrian/cycling 
routes are all key features to be analysed.  
Construction-related traffic impacts will be assessed and managed through a 
Construction Traffic Management Plan (CTMP). Prior to commencement, a Green 
Travel Plan will be prepared to minimise operational traffic impacts and support 
sustainability objectives.     
Back-up Power 
System 
The EIS will include a detailed generator testing regime and schedule to assist the 
EPA and DPHI in understanding the frequency, duration and management of testing 
activities. A Back-up Power Report will also accompany the EIS outlining the 
generator configuration, operational parameters and testing regime, including 
routine run testing and annual load bank testing. 
Fire Safety Fire safety and incident management will be addressed, this includes assessing the 
proposed development against the FRNSW guidelines and Fire Safety in Waste 
Facilities (FRNSW 2020). These guidelines will determine the extent of infrastructure 
needed for fire protection. Consideration will also be given to FRNSW’s position 
statement on ‘Lithium-ion batteries and diesel generators in data centres’ (dated 3 
June 2026). 
Infrastructure 
Requirements and 
Utilities 
The EIS will outline the infrastructure requirements for the proposal, including 
electricity, water, sewer and communications services. It will detail the approval 
pathway required for electricity connections to the site from the St Leonards zone 
substation.  
Water and Flooding The site is identified as part of Willougby Council’s flood planning area. Analysis of 
the site’s water and stormwater conditions will be included in the civil infrastructure 
report and plans. A Stormwater Management Strategy (SMS) will be prepared with 
supporting Civil Plans. A Flood Impact Risk Assessment in accordance with the NSW 
Floodplain Development Manuel 2005 will be provided in the SSDA and analyse any 
further potential flood impacts on the site and surrounds. 
Earthworks Civil plans will be prepared to identify and manage any negative impacts  resulting 
from the proposed bulk earthworks. It is expected that cut and fill works will be 
required across the site. The proposed earthworks will be informed by a detailed cut 
and fill strategy.  
Trees and 
Landscaping 
Vegetation removal associated with the project will be addressed within the future 
EIS, Arboricultural Assessment and Landscape Design Report and Plans. The 
proposal will include deep soil landscaping within site setbacks to ensure a 
vegetated buffer is provided where possible to the public domain.  
Plant species will be selected in accordance with applicable guidelines and 
management plans. Any future fencing will be located and designed to optimise  a 
green interface with surrounding public areas. 
[[page 34]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Proposed Assessment of Impacts 34 
 
 
Matter  Consideration  
Land Contamination A Preliminary Site Investigation and Detailed Site Investigation will be prepared for 
the project to confirm any contamination risks on the site as a result of previous 
activities and land uses.  
It is noted within the Aboriginal Objects Due Diligence Assessment that the site was 
previously mined for brick manufacturing. If required, a Remediation Action Plan will 
be provided to address any requirements for contamination identified in the 
contamination studies.  
Geotechnical A Geotechnical Report will provide an assessment of the ground conditions of the 
site and any risks associated with ground stability or proposed excavation. The 
report will detail the findings from desktop review of the site and borehole testing 
where necessary. The report will recommend appropriate temporary and 
permanent site support and retention measures if required. The Geotechnical 
Report will also assist to determine any required engineering and earthworks to 
achieve the proposed development outcome. 
Waste The proposed development is expected to generate waste during the demolition, 
construction, and operation phases. A construction and operational Waste 
Management Plan (WMP) will be attained to determine the extent of management 
required and will be in accordance with waste regulatory frameworks and 
legislation. 
Biodiversity The site currently consists of areas of existing vegetation. A detailed ecological 
assessment of the site will occur to identify any threatened species and help inform 
the potential impacts of the proposal. This investigation will determine whether a 
BDAR or BDAR Waiver is required.  
Heritage An Aboriginal Objects Due Diligence Assessment has been prepared by Urbis which 
outlines that there are no known Aboriginal objects or places registered within the 
curtilage of the subject area and the site contains a highly modified landscape. It 
confirms that no further investigation is required for the subject area and that the 
development will be subject to unexpected archaeological finds and human 
remains procedures being implemented. The Aboriginal Objects Due Diligence finds 
that an Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Assessment is not required for this site. As such, 
it is requested that the SEARs does not require preparation of this report.  
In terms of European Heritage, a local heritage item is located adjacent to the site 
on the northern side of Frederick Street. As a result of the site’s proximity to the item, 
a Heritage Impact Assessment will be undertaken.   
ESD An ESD Report will be prepared to assess the sustainability performance of the 
development in accordance with section 193 of the EP&A Regulation. The 
assessment will address:  
▪ Greenhouse gas emissions,   
▪ Building design and layout,   
▪ Embodied emissions, including preparation of a NABERS embodied emissions 
submission,  
▪ Climate risk and resilience,   
▪ Operational performance targets,  
▪ WSUD,   
▪ Material selection, and   
[[page 35]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Proposed Assessment of Impacts 35 
 
 
Matter  Consideration  
▪ Energy consumption.   
The ESD report will provide an assessment of the proposal and demonstrate ways 
in which the development can achieve best practice and compliance with 
sustainability requirements.  The ESD report will provide an assessment of the 
building design and demonstrate ways in which the development can achieve 
best practice and compliance with sustainability requirements.  
Hazards and Risks The EIS will demonstrate the development would comply with the relevant aspects 
of the following standards:  
▪ AS/NZS 4681 – Storage and handling of Class 9 (miscellaneous) dangerous 
goods and articles,  
▪ A/S IEC 62619 – Secondary cells and batteries containing alkaline or other 
non-acid electrolytes – Safety requirements for secondary lithium cells and 
batteries, for use in industrial applications, and   
▪ FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheet 5 -32 – Data Centres and 
Related Facilities ‒ S 1940 – Storage and handling of flammable and 
combustible liquids.  
This will be addressed in a Preliminary Hazard Analysis. 
Economic Impact 
Assessment 
The economic impacts of the proposed data centre operation will be assessed and 
addressed in the EIS within an accompanying Economic Impact Assessment. The 
economic impact assessment will address the need for the proposed data centre 
floorspace and its impacts by considering: 
▪ Forecast growth in data storage demand based on future population growth  
and current demand escalation . 
▪ Existing supply and vacancy rate for employment lands within Artarmon and 
the lower north shore , in relation to the relocation of current uses on the site . 
▪ Current and p roposed supply of employment lands and their role and function 
as employment generat ion locations within the locality  and the impact of the 
proposed project on the use of productive industrial land . 
Social Impact & 
CPTED 
A Social Impact Assessment will be prepared to assess the social consequences 
the project, namely the impacts on affected groups of people and on their way of 
life, life chances, health, culture, and capacity to sustain these. The SIA will address 
the positive and negative impacts associated with the project, as well as the 
measures to mitigate these impacts. The SIA will be prepared in line with the NSW 
Guidelines for Social Impact Assessments.  
A CPTED Assessment will detail how a development has been designed to reduce 
opportunities for crime by embedding a variety of design and place management 
principles into the design. 
Construction, 
Operation and 
Staging 
The development is proposed to occur in the following stages:  
▪ Stage 1: Demolition (Q4 2027)  
▪ Stage 2: Construction (Q3 2028 – Q4 2030) 
Further detail on construction methodology, sequencing and operational staging 
will be provided in the EIS.  
Community 
Engagement 
An Engagement Outcomes Report will be provided as required by the SEARs. The 
Report will outline the engagement carried out prior to SSDA lodgement, the 
outcomes of that engagement and how it has informed the proposal. The report will 
[[page 36]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Proposed Assessment of Impacts 36 
 
 
Matter  Consideration  
provide evidence of a transparent and collaborative engagement process. This 
document will be included in the EIS as part of the SSDA. The document will also 
outline: 
▪ Issues raised by surrounding landowners & stakeholders.  
▪ Project response to issues  
▪ Proposed future community and stakeholder engagement based on the 
results of consultation.  
7.2 Matters Requiring No Further Assessment in the EIS 
This section of the report identifies the following matters that do not require further assessment in the EIS. 
Each of these matters was considered within the scoping phase but considered unlikely to result in significant 
impacts that warrant further assessment.  
▪ Access- port/rail facilities:  The site is not within proximity to a port or approved rail facility.  
▪ Bushfire – The site is not mapped as being bushfire prone.  
[[page 37]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards  Conclusion 37 
 
 
8 Conclusion 
This Scoping Report has outlined preliminary information regarding the proposed development of a data 
centre. The report has outlined preliminary information regarding the site and proposal, identified the relevant 
strategic and statutory context, summarised the approach to engagement with stakeholders and, identified 
the scale and nature of the impacts of the project.  
As outlined in Section 5, the Proposal is declared State Significant Development under Schedule 1, Clause 25 
of State Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021. We trust that the information detailed in this 
report is sufficient to enable the Secretary to issue SEARs for the preparation of an EIS. 
[[page 38]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards   38 
 
 
Disclaimer 
This report is dated 5 August 2026 and incorporates information and events up to that date only and 
excludes any information arising, or event occurring, after that date which may affect the validity of Urbis Ltd 
(Urbis) opinion in this report. Urbis prepared this report on the instructions, and for the benefit only, of 
Gateway Capital (Instructing Party) for the purpose of SSDA Scoping Report (Purpose) and not for any other 
purpose or use. To the extent permitted by applicable law, Urbis expressly disclaims all liability, whether direct 
or indirect, to the Instructing Party which relies or purports to rely on this report for any purpose other than the 
Purpose, and to any other person which relies or purports to rely on this report for any purpose whatsoever 
(including the Purpose). 
In preparing this report, Urbis was required to make judgements which may be affected by unforeseen future 
events, the likelihood and effects of which are not capable of precise assessment. 
All surveys, forecasts, projections and recommendations contained in or associated with this report are made 
in good faith and on the basis of information supplied to Urbis at the date of this report, and upon which Urbis 
relied. Achievement of the projections and budgets set out in this report will depend, among other things, on 
the actions of others over which Urbis has no control. 
In preparing this report, Urbis may rely on or refer to documents in a language other than English, which Urbis 
may arrange to be translated. Urbis is not responsible for the accuracy or completeness of such translations 
and disclaims any liability for any statement or opinion made in this report being inaccurate or incomplete 
arising from such translations. 
Whilst Urbis has made all reasonable inquiries it believes necessary in preparing this report, it is not 
responsible for determining the completeness or accuracy of information provided to it. Urbis (including its 
officers and personnel) is not liable for any errors or omissions, including in information provided by the 
Instructing Party or another person or upon which Urbis relies, provided that such errors or omissions are not 
made by Urbis recklessly or in bad faith. 
This report has been prepared with due care and diligence by Urbis and the statements and opinions given 
by Urbis in this report are given in good faith and in the reasonable belief that they are correct and not 
misleading, subject to the limitations above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 39]]
 
Scoping Report – 12 Frederick St, St Leonards   39 
 
 
  urbis.com.au 