[[page 1]]
 
Scoping Report - Kemps Creek Data Centre   1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Aldington 
Road            
Data Centre 
Scoping Report - Lots 43 and 90 
Aldington Road  
August 2026 
Prepared for: Stockland  

[[page 2]]
Scoping Report – Aldington Road Data Centre   2 
 
 
Urbis staff responsible for this report were: 
Director Tim Blythe 
Associate Director Anthony Kong 
Senior Consultant Andrew Lee 
Project Code P0067768 
Report Number V3_18 August 2026  
 
 
  
Acknowledgment of Country 
Urbis acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands we operate on. 
We recognise that First Nations sovereignty was never ceded and respect First Nations peoples continuing 
connection to these lands, waterways and ecosystems for over 60,000 years. 
We pay our respects to First Nations Elders, past and present. 
 
Urbis is committed to incorporating our respect for First Nations cultures, peoples and storytelling in our work 
across the Country. We are proud to have partnered with Darug Nation artist, Hayley Pigram, and to profile her 
artwork - Sacred River Dreaming. 
 
 
The river is the symbol of the Dreaming 
and the journey of life. The circles and 
lines represent people meeting and 
connections across time and space. When 
we are working in different places, we can 
still be connected and work towards the 
same goal. 
All information supplied to Urbis in order to conduct this research has been treated in the strictest confidence.  
It shall only be used in this context and shall not be made available to third parties without client authorisation.  
Confidential information has been stored securely and data provided by respondents, as well as their identity, has been 
treated in the strictest confidence and all assurance given to respondents have been and shall be fulfilled. 
 
 
© Urbis Ltd 
50 105 256 228 
 
All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced without prior permission. 
You must read the important disclaimer appearing within the body of this report. 
 
urbis.com.au 

[[page 3]]
Scoping Report – Aldington Road Data Centre   3 
 
 
Contents 
1 Introduction 5 
1.1 90 Aldington Road SEARs Request 5 
1.2 Amended Proposal 6 
1.3 Applicant Details 9 
1.4 Project Overview 9 
1.5 Supporting Documentation 11 
2 Project Background 12 
2.1 Site and Consent History 12 
2.2 Project Rationale 15 
3 Strategic Context 17 
3.1 Key Features of Site and Surrounds 17 
3.2 Regional Stormwater Infrastructure 24 
3.3 Project Justification 25 
3.4 Cumulative Impacts with Future Projects 28 
3.5 Agreement with Other Parties 32 
4 Project 33 
4.1 Project Objectives 33 
4.2 Proposed Development 34 
4.3 Project Details 37 
5 Statutory Context 40 
5.1 Statutory Requirements 40 
5.2 Pre-Conditions 41 
5.3 Mandatory Considerations 43 
6 Stakeholder Engagement 47 
6.1 Engagement Carried Out 47 
6.2 Future Engagement to be Carried out by the 
Applicant 48 
7 Proposed Assessment of Impacts 49 
7.1 Matters Requiring Further Assessment in the 
EIS 49 
Disclaimer 56 
 
Figures 
Figure 1 Previous 90 Aldington Road Scheme (SSD-
112059740 | April 2026) ............................................................... 6 
Figure 2 Proposed 43 and 90 Aldington Road 
Scheme (Amendment to SSD-112059740 | August 
2026) ...................................................................................................... 7 
Figure 3 Site Zoning .................................................................... 10 
Figure 4 Amended Project 3D Concept Render
 ................................................. Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Figure 5 General Arrangement Plan ................................12 
Figure 6 Proposed Lot 43 Civil Works .............................. 13 
Figure 7 Road 2 Continuation (shown dashed red 
through the site) within the Mamre Road Precinct – 
Road Network Hierarchy ......................................................... 14 
Figure 8 CPCP Mapping ........................................................... 19 
Figure 9 Biodiversity Mapping (mapped 
“Biodiversity Values” in dark purple) ............................. 20 
Figure 10 Subject Site ..................................................................21 
Figure 11 Approved Intersection 4 & Aldington Road 
Widening Works (SSD-10479 Mod 3 | 22/03/2024)23 
Figure 12 Approved Concept Plan – SSD-10479 | 
04.09.2023 ....................................................................................... 23 
Figure 13 Extract of MRP IWCP ............................................. 24 
Figure 14 Extract of Mamre Road Structure Plan 
(June 2026) .................................................................................... 28 
Figure 15 Adjacent Development Applications ....... 29 
Figure 16 Project 3D Concept Render ............................ 33 
Figure 17 Proposed Development Staging ................. 34 
Figure 18 Proposed Development Layout ................... 35 
Figure 19 Proposed Development Sections ............... 35 
Figure 20 General Arrangement Plan – Southern 
Data Centre Building ................................................................ 36 
Figure 21 General Arrangement Plan – Northern 
Data Centre Building ................................................................ 36 
Figure 22 Overview of Vehicular Access ..................... 37 
Figure 23 Proposed Power Infrastructure ................... 38 
Figure 24 indicative Building Height Analysis ........... 51 
Figure 25 Preliminary Review of Nearby Sensitive 
Residential Receivers ............................................................... 52 
[[page 4]]
 
Scoping Report – Aldington Road Data Centre   4 
 
 
Figure 26 Preliminary Acoustic Assessment – 
Noise Exceedances  .................................................................. 52 
Figure 27 Preliminary Landscape Concept Plan .... 55 
 
Tables 
Table 1 Amended Proposal Comparison ....................... 8 
Table 2 Applicant Details ......................................................... 9 
Table 3 Project Overview .......................................................... 9 
Table 4 Supporting Documentation ................................. 11 
Table 5 Project Rationale ........................................................ 15 
Table 6 Site Overview ................................................................ 17 
Table 7 Summary of Strategic Context ....................... 25 
Table 8 Approved and Likely Future Developments
 ................................................................................................................ 29 
Table 9 Identification of Statutory Requirements for 
the Project ....................................................................................... 40 
Table 10 Pre-Conditions ........................................................... 41 
Table 11 Mandatory Considerations ............................... 43 
Table 12 Agency Engagement ............................................47 
Table 13 Future Engagement .............................................. 48 
Table 14 Matters requiring assessment in the EIS . 49 
 
 
[[page 5]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 5 
 
 
1 Introduction 
This Scoping Report has been prepared by Urbis on behalf of Stockland Development Pty Limited (the 
Applicant) in support of a Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements (SEARs) amendment request 
to the Department of Planning, Housing and Infrastructure (DPHI) in relation to the SEARs issued for the 
proposed 90 Aldington Road Data Centre State Significant Development Application (SSDA) (SSD-112059740). 
The Applicant seeks to amend the SEARs to reflect an amended scheme referred to as the Aldington Road 
Data Centre (the proposal) at Lots 43 and 90 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek (the site). 
On 24 April 2026, the Department issued SEARs for a previous State Significant Development proposal relating 
to 90 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek. The acquisition of the adjoining lot at 43 Aldington Road by the Applicant 
is the catalyst for this amended scheme which now spans across the two lots. 
1.1 90 Aldington Road Data Centre Proposal 
On 24 April 2026, the Department issued Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements (SEARs) for a 
previous State Significant Development proposal relating to 90 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek. 
The previous proposal contemplated:  
▪ a single data centre development on Lot 90,  
▪ approximately 20 hectares of site area,  
▪ approximately 10 hectares of developable area,  
▪ building heights of up to 27 metres,  
▪ approximately 226 –245MW IT load,  
▪ a 1,000 MVA substation.  
Since the issue of the previous SEARs, the project has evolved substantially through:  
▪ The consolidation of Lots 43 and 90,   
▪ The refinement of the site layout and infrastructure strategy, increased IT load and campus scale,   
▪ The revised staging and servicing arrangements, and further consultation with Transgrid, Sydney 
Water and government agencies.  
The current proposal supersedes the earlier scheme and now seeks consent for an integrated two-building 
hyperscale data centre campus across the consolidated Lots 43 and 90. 
On 30 April 2026, Stockland engaged with the IDA to formally request the inclusion of Lot 43 into the Lot 90 IDA 
declaration, some the reasons as follows: 
▪ The consolidation a llows for the Gas Insulated Substation (referred to as the Ropes Creek switching 
station) and transformers on Lot 90 needed to service the delivery of the proposed data centre . 
▪ It optimises the footprint of the Ropes Creek switching station which will be designed to cater for the 
ultimate 1000MVA requested capacity and service Lots 43, 90 initially and 200 over time (i.e. enabling 
infrastructure for the entire campus) . 
▪ Lot 43 is a logical extension to Lot 90 forming the last contiguous land parcel along the Aldington Road 
corridor below the environmental conservation lands to the north, which connects to Ropes Creek.  
▪ Lot 43 is potentially landlocked due to its frontage being defined by an environmental conservation 
area comprising of dense vegetation. Any future development on Lot 43 would rely on access through 
Lot 90, which has direct frontage to Aldington Road.  
[[page 6]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 6 
 
 
Figure 1 Previous 90 Aldington Road Scheme ( SSD-112059740  | April 2026)  
 
Source: Gensler  
1.2 Amended Proposal – Aldington Road Data Centre 
This Scoping Report outlines the amended proposal which underpins the SEARs amendment request, The 
proposal seeks consent for the construction and operation of a hyperscale data centre campus within the 
Mamre Road Precinct (MRP) comprising two data centre buildings and associated infrastructure, including a 
substation, switching station, transmission infrastructure, backup power systems and diesel storage, 
landscaping and supporting site works. 
The site is located within the MRP of the Western Sydney Employment Area (WSEA). The proposal is intended 
to support growing demand for digital infrastructure and data processing capacity across NSW and 
Australia. 
This proposal was endorsed by the Investment Delivery Authority (IDA) on 27 March 2026 as one of fifteen 
data centre projects identified as critical to driving data centre development in support of greater investment 
in the NSW economy. 
The proposal is delivered in response to the NSW Data Centre Consultation Paper released by Investment 
NSW, which provides a principles-based approach to managing the opportunities and challenges of data 
centre investment for the economic benefit for NSW. 
The proposal is underpinned by the following objectives: 
▪ Deliver critical digital infrastructure through the establishment of a scalable Tier 1 hyperscale data 
centre campus within the MRP, supporting growing hyperscale demand and the long -term evolution 
of Western Sydney’s digital economy.  
▪ Support the employment and infrastructure objectives of the WSEA through delivery of a technology -
based industrial development within a planned infrastructure corridor.  
▪ Leverage the site’s proximity to major transport, freight, energy and utility infrastructure, including WSI, 
to deliver an efficient and regionally integrated data centre campus.  
▪ Deliver a staged and master -planned development that integrates with planned precinct 
infrastructure and appropriately responds to environmental, servicing, operational and aviation 
safeguarding considerations.  

[[page 7]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 7 
 
 
▪ Pursue sustainable development outcomes through energy -efficient design, low water use and 
appropriate environmental management measures . 
▪ Deliver and fund new transmission capacity for the NSW network through the Ropes Creek switching 
station and Line 14 duplication, that supports the proposed data centre campus and also the broader 
economic growth of the Western Sydney region.  
▪ Unlock 1 gigawatt ( GW) of total connection capacity supported by staged investment and committed 
demand. 
The proposed Ropes Creek 330 kilovolt (kV) switching station and substation on Lot 90 are intended to be 
delivered on site to service the proposed data centre. These are to be designed with and delivered on behalf 
of Transgrid to support the proposal and the associated 500 mega volt-amperes (MVA) power capacity for 
the site, plus an additional 500MVA future capacity for the 200 Aldington Road estate. The proposed 
substation provides the required energy for the proposed data centre and also the economy of future data 
centres within the precinct with a guaranteed power supply. Upon commissioning, the switching station and 
substation will vest in Transgrid ownership as shared network infrastructure, delivering additional 
transmission capacity to support growth across the region. The proposed substation will comprise of the 
subdivision of a lot for dedication to Transgrid, which will form part of the proposed works. 
The proposal is classified as State Significant Development (SSD) pursuant to Schedule 1, Clause 25 of the 
State Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021 (Planning Systems SEPP) as development for 
the purposes of a data centre with a total power consumption exceeding 15 megawatts. 
This Scoping Report has been prepared in accordance with the Department of Planning, Housing and 
Infrastructure’s State Significant Development Guidelines – Preparing a Scoping Report and identifies:  
▪ the site and surrounding context;  
▪ the strategic and statutory planning framework applying to the proposal;  
▪ the proposed development;  
▪ stakeholder engagement undertaken to date;  
▪ and the key environmental assessment matters proposed to be addressed in the Environmental 
Impact Statement ( EIS). 
Figure 2 Proposed 43 and 90 Aldington Road Scheme (Amendment to SSD-112059740  | August 2026)  
  
Source: Gensler  

[[page 8]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 8 
 
 
Figure 3 Amended Project 3D Concept Render  
 
Source: Gensler  
Table 1 90 Aldington Road Data Centre and Amended Proposal Comparison  
Description 90 Aldington Road Data Centre Amended Proposal  
Site Area Approximately 20ha Approximately 30ha 
Site Developable 
Area Approximately 10ha Approximately 14ha 
Height 27 metres 36 metres 
MegaWatt IT Load 
(Max) 245 MW 360 MW 
MegaWatt IT Load 
(Min) 226 MW 342 MW 
Data Centre Cost 
Estimate n/a Approximately $4-5 billion 
Water Use Range of considerations at heat 
rejection level, including air-cooled, 
water-cooled and hybrid systems  
The data centre does not use water for 
cooling 
Mega Volt-Amperes 
(MVA) 1,000 MVA substation 1,000 MVA substation 
 
 

[[page 9]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 9 
 
 
1.3 Applicant Details 
The applicant details for the proposed development are listed in the following table. 
Table 2 Applicant Details  
Proponent Description 
Postal Address Level 26, 133 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000 
ACN/ABN 000 064 835 
Nominated Contact Maud Garnier 
Stockland, Project Director 
[mobile redacted] 
1.4 Project Overview 
Table 3 Project Overview  
Matter Description 
Project Aldington Road Data Centre 
Site Address 54-72 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek NSW (Lot 43) 
74-104 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek NSW (Lot 90) 
 
Legal Description Lot 43 DP 708347 and Lot 90 DP 1289463 
Local Government Area Penrith City Council (Council) 
Site Area Approximately 30 hectares 
Developable Area Approximately 14 hectares 
Existing Land Use Vacant land subject to approved site preparation and civil enabling works. 
Land Zoning IN1 General Industrial, C2 Environmental Conservation, SP2 Infrastructure (Local 
Road) and RE2 Private Recreation 
[[page 10]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 10 
 
 
Figure 4 Site Zoning  
  
Source: Urbis  
Planning Framework The site is located within the Mamre Road Precinct (MRP) and Western Sydney 
Employment Area (WSEA). 
Development Type Hyperscale data centre campus 
Proposal Summary The proposal seeks consent for the construction, fit-out and operation of a 
hyperscale data centre campus comprising two data centre buildings and 
associated infrastructure, including substations, switching station, 
transmission infrastructure, backup power infrastructure, landscaping and 
servicing works. 
Building Height Maximum building height of approximately 36 metres 
Storeys Three (3) Storeys 
IT Load Capacity Approximately 342–360MW 
Power Infrastructure 1,000 MVA substation, switching station and associated transmission 
infrastructure. 
Cooling System Predominantly air-cooled system with no water-based cooling proposed as 
part of standard operations. 
Access Access to the site will be provided via the approved 200 Aldington Road 
industrial road network to the south. No operational or construction access is 
proposed via Bakers Lane. 
Development Staging The proposal is intended to be delivered in two stages comprising:  
▪ Stage 1 – southern data centre building, administration areas, 
substation and switch ing station infrastructure, site entry and 
associated road infrastructure; and  

[[page 11]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 11 
 
 
▪ Stage 2 – northern data centre building and associated road and site 
infrastructure.  
Estimated Development 
Cost 
Approximately $4–5 billion 
Strategic Context The proposal is located within a strategically planned industrial precinct 
intended to support large-scale employment and infrastructure uses 
associated with the MRP and Western Sydney International Airport. 
Approval Pathway The proposal is SSD pursuant to Schedule 1, Clause 25 of the Planning Systems 
SEPP as development for the purposes of a data centre with a total power 
consumption exceeding 15 megawatts. 
1.5 Supporting Documentation 
This Scoping Report is supported by the following documentation. 
Table 4 Supporting Documentation  
Appendix No. Document 
Appendix A Architectural Plans 
Appendix B Scoping Summary Table 
 
[[page 12]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 12 
 
 
2 Project Background 
2.1 Site and Consent History 
2.1.1 DA22/0530 – Site Preparation, Earthworks and Subdivision 
On 25 September 2024, development consent DA22/0530 was granted by Penrith City Council for:  
▪ three lot Torrens title subdivision,  
▪ vegetation removal,  
▪ bulk earthworks,  
▪ road construction,  
▪ and associated civil and stormwater drainage works at 74 –104 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek (Lot 90 
DP 1289463).   
The approved development facilitated substantial site preparation and enabling works to support the future 
industrial development of the land within the MRP. The approval included the subdivision of the site to create 
two industrial development lots within the IN1 General Industrial zone and a residual environmental lot 
containing the RE2 Private Recreation and C2 Environmental Conservation land. 
The approved works also included bulk earthworks to establish future industrial development pads, retaining 
walls, construction of internal estate roads, interim stormwater management infrastructure, utility servicing 
infrastructure, rehabilitation works within the riparian corridor and land dedication associated with the future 
widening of Aldington Road. 
The approval established the initial development platform and civil infrastructure framework for future 
industrial development. 
Figure 5 General Arrangement Plan  
 
Source: Gensler  
 
 

[[page 13]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 13 
 
 
 
2.1.2 Lot 43 DA 
A separate Development Application has been lodged with Penrith City Council in relation to 54–72 Aldington 
Road, Kemps Creek (Lot 43 DP 708347) and part of 74–104 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek (part Lot 90 DP 
1289463) for site preparation works. The application seeks consent for:  
▪ vegetation removal and tree removal;  
▪ bulk earthworks to establish a future development pad;  
▪ temporary stormwater management infrastructure and erosion and sediment control measures; and  
▪ associated civil and enabling works.  
At the time of writing, the Lot 43 DA does not have an associated DA reference number. 
The proposed earthworks have been designed to facilitate the future consolidation of Lots 43 and 90 and 
establish a coordinated development platform across the broader site. The proposed finished ground levels 
are generally consistent with the approved development pad levels associated with DA22/0530 on Lot 90. 
The proposal also incorporates amendments to the previously approved civil works and road layout 
associated with DA22/0530, including the removal of the previously approved “Road 2 continuation” through 
Lot 90. The removal of this road connection is enabled by the intended consolidation of Lots 43 and 90 into a 
single development parcel, with future vehicular access proposed to be provided via the approved Road 6 
connection through the adjoining 200 Aldington Road industrial estate to the south. 
The proposed development footprint is contained within land identified as “Certified – Urban Capable Land” 
under the Cumberland Plain Conservation Plan. The proposal retains and protects the adjoining 
environmental land and riparian corridor associated with Ropes Creek located within the eastern portion of 
the site. 
Figure 6 Proposed Lot 43 Civil Works  
 
Source: AT&L 
 

[[page 14]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 14 
 
 
2.1.2.1 Road 2 Removal 
As part of the Lot 43 DA, the development application seeks approval for the removal of the previously 
approved “Road 2 continuation” connection extending north into Lot 43. The Road 2 continuation was 
approved under DA22/0530 to align with the MRP DCP local road network and was intended to provide future 
vehicular access to Lot 43 and connecting to 200 Aldington Road to the south (Figure 7 demonstrates the 
indicative alignment in the MRP DCP). 
Figure 7 Road 2 Continuation (shown dashed red through the site)  within the Mamre Road Precinct – Road Network Hierarchy  
 
Source: Ason Group 
Since the approval of DA22/0530, Lot 43 has been acquired by a related entity and is intended to be 
consolidated with Lot 90 (as part of the SSDA to which this Scoping Report relates). As a result, the 
continuation of Road 2 is no longer required to provide separate access to Lot 43 and hence the Lot 43 DA 
seeks to remove it and allow for the internal road network to facilitate connectivity throughout the 
consolidated landholding. Future vehicular access proposed to be provided via the approved Road 6 
connection through the adjoining 200 Aldington Road industrial estate to the south. 
2.1.3 SSD-10479 - 200 Aldington Road SSDA  
On 5 May 2023, development consent was granted for the 200 Aldington Road Industrial Estate (SSD-10479) 
located immediately south of the site. The approval comprises a staged industrial estate within the MRP, 
including concept approval for 13 industrial warehouse and distribution buildings and associated 
infrastructure across approximately 72 hectares of land. 
The approved development includes:  
▪ staged warehousing, distribution and industrial development;  
▪ bulk earthworks and site preparation works;  
▪ subdivision to create industrial development lots;  
▪ construction of internal roads and associated servicing infrastructure;  
▪ stormwater management and utility infrastructure;  
▪ landscaping and environmental management works; and  

[[page 15]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 15 
 
 
▪ upgrades to the surrounding road network, including Aldington Road, Abbotts Road and the Mamre 
Road / Abbotts Road intersection.  
Since the original approval, the consent has been subject to a number of modifications and subsequent 
detailed development stages, including amendments to the internal lot layout, road infrastructure, building 
envelopes and servicing strategy.  
The approved estate forms a key component of the broader industrial transition of the MRP and provides 
significant supporting infrastructure relevant to the proposed data centre development, including the 
approved local road network and regional servicing framework adjoining the southern boundary of the site. 
The approved estate also includes provision for future east-west and north-south local road connections 
identified under the MRP DCP, including the previously approved “Road 2 continuation” extending north 
toward Lot 43, which is no longer required following the intended consolidation of Lots 43 and 90 (as detailed 
in Section 2.1.2.1). 
Further detail regarding the approved road network and access arrangements relevant to the proposal is 
provided in Section 3.1.1 of this report. 
2.2 Project Rationale 
The rationale for the project including need and site selection is described in Table 5 below.   
Table 5 Project Rationale  
Project Detail Commentary 
Project Need The proposal responds to increasing demand for digital infrastructure and high-capacity 
data processing facilities within strategically located industrial precincts. 
The proposal will facilitate the delivery of critical digital infrastructure within Western 
Sydney and support the continued growth of NSW’s digital and technology economy. The 
scale of the proposal reflects the substantial IT load requirements necessary to support 
hyperscale users and long-term operational demand. 
Since the issue of the previous SEARs for 90 Aldington Road in April 2026, the proposal has 
evolved substantially through the consolidation of Lots 43 and 90, refinement of the 
infrastructure strategy and continued engagement with key agencies and infrastructure 
providers. 
The revised proposal significantly increases the scale and capability of the development, 
increasing the proposed IT load from approximately 226–245MW under the previous 
scheme to approximately 342–360MW under the current proposal. The consolidated site 
and revised servicing strategy enable the delivery of a larger and more efficient master-
planned campus capable of supporting substantial long-term digital infrastructure 
demand within Western Sydney. 
The proposal has also progressed with support through the NSW Investment Delivery 
Authority pathway, recognising the strategic significance of the project and its potential to 
facilitate major investment in digital infrastructure within NSW. 
The proposal is expected to contribute to employment generation, infrastructure 
investment and industrial development within Western Sydney. 
Site Selection The site is located within the MRP and is zoned IN1 General Industrial under the State 
Environmental Planning Policy (Industry and Employment) 2021. 
The proposal is consistent with the strategic vision for the MRP, which identifies the area as 
a major industrial and employment precinct supporting large-scale industrial, logistics, 
warehousing and emerging technology-based land uses. The proposal also aligns with the 
NSW Government’s emerging policy direction regarding data centre investment and digital 
infrastructure delivery as well as the broader objectives of the WSEA. 
[[page 16]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 16 
 
 
Project Detail Commentary 
The site is well positioned to accommodate a hyperscale data centre campus due to its:  
▪ proximity to major transport and freight infrastructure, including the M12 Motorway, 
Elizabeth Drive and the broader Western Sydney transport network;  
▪ access to existing and planned electrical, utility and servicing infrastructure;  
▪ availability of large consolidated industrial land parcels capable of accommodating 
hyperscale development requirements;  
▪ compatibility with the evolving industrial character of the precinct; and  
▪ proximity to Western Sydney International Airport.  
The site’s location within the MRP provides access to planned regional infrastructure and 
employment land. 
Strategies to 
avoid, 
minimise or 
offset 
impacts 
The proposal is being designed having regard to the environmental, landscape and 
operational context of the MRP and incorporates measures to minimise environmental and 
amenity impacts associated with a hyperscale data centre development. 
Key strategies that will be incorporated into the proposal include:  
▪ adoption of an air -cooling method to remove the need for water.  
▪ integration with planned regional stormwater infrastructure and water -sensitive 
urban design measures;  
▪ protection and appropriate management of the Ropes Creek riparian corridor 
interface and surrounding ecological areas;  
▪ landscape-led design measures to soften the visual appearance of buildings and 
infrastructure, including substantial tree planting, canopy cover and deep soil zones;  
▪ climate-responsive and sustainable design initiatives, including energy -efficient 
infrastructure, renewable energy procurement, low -carbon materials and a cooling 
system that does not require water use;  
▪ integration of operational, access and security requirements within a coordinated 
site layout t hat responds to the surrounding industrial context; and  
▪ implementation of mitigation measures relating to acoustic, visual, traffic and air 
quality impacts, informed by detailed technical assessment.  
▪ adoption of flexible loading arrangements with Transgrid for the power supply to 
help maximise the value of existing electricity infrastructure, delaying unnecessary 
upgrades while maintaining system reliability. A flexible loading arrangement is a 
connection model that enables a customer to access electricity network capacity 
earlier by agreeing to temporarily reduce demand during defined network constraint 
events. Refer Section 4.3.2.1 for further details on flexible loading arrangements.  
 
[[page 17]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 17 
 
 
3 Strategic Context 
3.1 Key Features of Site and Surrounds 
The key features of the Site which have the potential to impact or be impacted by the proposed development 
are summarised in the table below. 
Table 6 Site Overview  
Description Site Detail 
Land Configuration The site is located at Lots 43 and 90 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek and is legally 
described as:  
▪ Lot 43 DP 708347  
▪ Lot 90 DP 1289463  
Existing land use(s) The site is currently vacant and comprises land subject to ongoing and approved 
civil enabling and site preparation works associated with the broader industrial 
development of the MRP. 
The western and central portions of the site comprise cleared land, existing rural 
paddocks, former agricultural land and approved development pads associated with 
earthworks approved under DA22/0530. Lot 43 also contains several existing rural 
structures and farm-related improvements, including a dwelling, sheds, a former 
greenhouse structure and associated rural infrastructure proposed to be removed as 
part of the broader redevelopment of the site. 
The eastern portion of the site contains existing vegetation, a farm dam and land 
associated with the future Sydney Water regional stormwater infrastructure corridor. 
An existing Transgrid easement traverses the eastern portion of the site in a north-
south direction and contains existing high voltage transmission infrastructure. 
The site does not currently contain any occupied buildings or operational industrial 
uses. 
Surrounding Land 
Use 
Land surrounding the site is progressively transitioning from historical rural and 
agricultural land uses toward large-scale industrial, logistics and employment 
generating development associated with the MRP and Western Sydney International 
Airport (WSI). 
Surrounding land uses include:  
▪ Land to the north comprises a combination of rural residential properties, 
remnant agricultural land and emerging industrial development within the 
MRP. Further north -west are education and community uses along Bakers 
Lane, including Emmaus Catholic College, Trinity Catholic Primary School, Little 
Smarts Early Learning Centre and the Emmaus Retirement Village.  
▪ East North: Land to the east comprises the Ropes Creek corridor and 
associated environmental lands, including vegetated riparian areas and 
broader ecological corridor land identified within the MRP Structure Plan. 
Further east are rural residential and transitional employment lands within 
Kemps Creek.  
▪ South: Immediately adjoining the southern boundary is the approved and 
under construction 200 Aldington Road Industrial Estate (SSD -10479), 
comprising a large -scale industrial estate with warehouse and distribution 
centre development. Further south are addition al approved and emerging 
[[page 18]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 18 
 
 
industrial developments within the MRP, including logistics and warehousing 
estates. 
▪ West: The site fronts Aldington Road to the west. Land further west comprises 
existing and emerging industrial development, including approved 
warehousing, logistics and industrial estates within the broader MRP. Aldington 
Road also provides connection toward Mamre Road, Elizabeth Drive and the 
wider regional road network.  
Site Access and 
Road Network 
The site currently has frontage to Aldington Road to the west and forms part of the 
broader MRP road network within the WSEA. 
The site benefits from strategic regional connectivity via Aldington Road and Mamre 
Road to Elizabeth Drive, the future M12 Motorway, the M4 Motorway and the broader 
Western Sydney motorway network. The site is also located within proximity to the 
future Western Sydney International Airport and planned freight and intermodal 
infrastructure identified within the MRP Structure Plan. 
Acid Sulfate Soils The site is not identified as containing mapped Acid Sulfate Soils under the relevant 
Acid Sulfate Soils mapping applicable to the land. 
Previous geotechnical, salinity and contamination investigations undertaken across 
Lots 43 and 90 in support of the approved and proposed site preparation works did 
not identify acid sulfate soil risks or constraints associated with the proposed 
development areas (see Section 2.1.1 for Lot 90 and Section 2.1.2 for Lot 43). 
No known acid sulfate soil constraints have been identified that would preclude the 
proposed development. 
Contamination Previous contamination investigations have been undertaken across Lots 43 and 90 
in support of the approved and proposed site preparation works, including 
Preliminary and Detailed Site Investigations, soil sampling, test pitting and 
assessment of historical land uses (see Section 2.1.1 for Lot 90 and Section 2.1.2 for Lot 
43). 
The investigations identified that the sites generally comprise natural topsoil and clay 
soils associated with historical rural residential, agricultural and market gardening 
activities. The investigations concluded that:  
▪ no significant contamination exceedances were identified against the relevant 
human health or industrial land use criteria;  
▪ no asbestos was identified within sampled soils;  
▪ the sites are considered suitable for future industrial development;  
▪ and no contamination constraints were identified that would preclude the 
proposed development.  
Historical site activities across the broader landholding included agricultural uses, 
market gardening, rural residential uses and associated farm infrastructure. 
Conditions relating to unexpected contamination finds and appropriate remediation 
management have previously been imposed under DA22/0530 and are anticipated 
to be imposed under the Lot 43 DA. 
Stormwater and 
Flooding 
The site forms part of the Hawkesbury-Nepean catchment and contains land 
affected by local flooding associated with Ropes Creek and an unnamed first order 
tributary within the eastern portion of the site. 
The eastern portion of the site is identified as flood prone land under the Penrith LEP 
flood planning mapping and is also affected by regional drainage infrastructure 
identified within the MRP stormwater framework. 
[[page 19]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 19 
 
 
Sydney Water’s MRP Integrated Stormwater Scheme identifies regional trunk drainage 
infrastructure and Basin 26 infrastructure within the eastern portion of the site. 
Bushfire Prone Land The site contains land identified as bushfire prone. The western and eastern portions 
of the site are affected by bushfire vegetation buffer mapping, with portions of the 
eastern land also identified as Category 1 vegetation associated with the adjoining 
vegetated riparian corridor. 
Biodiversity The site contains areas identified under the Cumberland Plain Conservation Plan 
(CPCP) as urban capable land, with portions of the eastern part of the site containing 
existing vegetation and areas identified as avoided or excluded land associated with 
biodiversity values and riparian interfaces. 
The eastern portion of the site adjoins areas of high biodiversity value associated with 
the Ropes Creek corridor and broader environmental lands within the MRP. The 
proposed development footprint has been prepared to be contained within the 
certified, urban capable land (see Section 4 for details). 
Figure 8 CPCP Mapping  
 
 
Source: Cumberland Plain Conservation Plan Viewer 
 
The site is also mapped as containing biodiversity values, generally contained within 
the areas zoned as C2 and as “avoided land” under the CPCP. 

[[page 20]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 20 
 
 
Figure 9 Biodiversity Mapping ( mapped “Biodiversity Values” in dark purple)  
 
Source: Spatial NSW + Mark-up 
Riparian Corridors The site contains and adjoins riparian corridors associated with: Ropes Creek along 
the eastern portion of the site. 
The riparian areas are generally located within the RE2 Private Recreation and C2 
Environmental Conservation zoned land and form part of the broader blue-green 
corridor network identified within the MRP. 
Previous investigations identified that portions of the riparian areas had been 
historically modified through agricultural activities, however opportunities exist for 
rehabilitation and revegetation outcomes. 
Aboriginal Heritage Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Assessments have previously been prepared across Lots 
43 and 90 in support of the approved and proposed site preparation works, in 
accordance with the Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Consultation Requirements for 
Proponents and associated NSW heritage guidelines (see Section 2.1.1 for Lot 90 and 
Section 2.1.2 for Lot 43). 
The investigations included consultation with Registered Aboriginal Parties, Aboriginal 
Heritage Information Management System (AHIMS) database searches, 
archaeological survey work and targeted archaeological test excavation programs. 
The broader site was identified as forming part of the wider Cumberland Plain 
cultural landscape, with archaeological sensitivity generally associated with 
waterways, elevated landforms and areas adjoining the Ropes Creek corridor. 
Investigations undertaken across Lot 90 identified one area of archaeological 
potential associated with the eastern watercourse corridor and adjoining landforms. 
Further investigations undertaken across Lot 43 and part Lot 90 identified a number of 
previously recorded Aboriginal sites within the broader locality, including seven (7) 
sites within the study area. Archaeological test excavations identified Aboriginal 
archaeological deposits within portions of the site assessed as having moderate 
archaeological potential. 
The investigations concluded that:  
▪ archaeological sensitivity across the broader site is generally concentrated 
near waterways and less disturbed landforms associated with the Ropes 
Creek corridor;  
▪ portions of the site have been historically disturbed through agricultural 
activities, rural residential uses, market gardening and associated earthworks;  

[[page 21]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 21 
 
 
▪ several identified Aboriginal heritage areas are capable of being avoided 
through the proposed development layout and associated protection 
measures; and  
▪ impacts to identified archaeological deposits and Aboriginal objects will be 
subject to further assessment, management and, where required, an 
Aboriginal Heritage Impact Permit process.  
European Heritage A Historic Heritage Due Diligence Assessment was previously undertaken for the site. 
The assessment concluded that:  
▪ no listed heritage items are located within the site,  
▪ no known archaeological relics or significant built heritage elements were 
identified,  
▪ and the site has generally low historical archaeological potential due to 
extensive historical agricultural disturbance and land modification.  
Aviation The site is located within the broader Western Sydney International Airport influence 
area and is affected by aviation safeguarding controls. 
The site is located beneath the future Western Sydney International flight path, is 
affected by the Obstacle Limitation Surface mapping, is located within the 8km 
wildlife buffer area associated with the airport, and is located on land in an ANEF 
contour between 20 and 25. 
Figure 10 Subject Site  
 
Source: Urbis  
 

[[page 22]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 22 
 
 
3.1.1 200 Aldington Road - Site Access 
The adjoining site to the south at 200 Aldington Road, Kemps Creek received consent on 5 May 2023 for a 
staged industrial estate comprising warehousing, distribution and associated infrastructure (SSD-10479). The 
approval included concept consent for 13 industrial buildings and Stage 1 works, including external road 
upgrades along Aldington Road and Abbotts Road and a signalised upgrade of the Mamre Road / Abbotts 
Road intersection. 
Modification 3 (SSD-10479-MOD-3), approved on 27 February 2025, refined and expanded the approved road 
infrastructure package to facilitate staged delivery of the precinct road network identified in the MRP DCP. The 
modification specifically approved interim and ultimate road widening works along Aldington Road, widening 
works along Abbotts Road, and upgrades to the Mamre Road / Abbotts Road intersection. 
Of direct relevance to Lot 90 & 43 Aldington Road, the approved works include:  
▪ widening of Aldington Road from the Westlink Industrial Estate northwards past the 200 Aldington 
Road site;  
▪ construction of “Intersection 4” on Aldington Road at the northern extent of the 200 Aldington Road 
estate;  
▪ reservation and partial delivery of an east -west local road corridor along the northern boundary of 
200 Aldington Road, comprising the southern half of the future road formation identified in the MRP 
DCP;  
▪ provision for future east -west and north -south connectivity via the internal road network extending 
east from Aldington Road and terminating at the northern and eastern site boundaries with temporary 
turning heads for future connection to adjoining land  (the subject site); and   
▪ staged delivery of the Aldington Road upgrade works prior to occupation of future industrial 
development.  
The approved road infrastructure forms part of the broader MRP road network identified in the MRP DCP and is 
intended to support cumulative industrial development across the precinct. Importantly, the approved 
“Intersection 4” and associated Aldington Road widening works establish the future connection point and 
frontage road infrastructure immediately adjoining the southern boundary of Lot 90 & 43 Aldington Road. The 
approved works are intended to facilitate future vehicular access to the subject site. The approved, ultimate 
intersection and road widening works are shown in Figure 11 and the approved concept master plan at 200 
Aldington Road is provided at Figure 12 below. 
[[page 23]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 23 
 
 
Figure 11 Approved Intersection 4 & Aldington Road Widening Works  (SSD-10479 Mod 3 | 22/03/2024 ) 
 
Source: AT&L 
Figure 12 Approved Concept Plan – SSD-10479 | 04.09.2023  
 
Source: SBA Architects  

[[page 24]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 24 
 
 
The approved roadworks are being delivered through a coordinated framework involving Penrith City Council, 
Transport for NSW and the MRP Landowners Group East (LOG-E), with the infrastructure designed and 
adopted by Council and TfNSW. 
3.2 Regional Stormwater Infrastructure 
In May 2025, Sydney Water released the MRP Integrated Stormwater Scheme Plan (Scheme Plan), which 
establishes the regional stormwater management framework for the MRP. The Scheme Plan identifies a 
coordinated network of trunk drainage channels, detention and treatment infrastructure intended to service 
future development across the precinct and support compliance with the water quality and waterway health 
objectives of the Mamre Road Precinct Development Control Plan 2021 (MRP DCP). 
The Scheme Plan identifies a number of regional stormwater infrastructure elements within the eastern 
portion of the site, including a naturalised trunk drainage corridor, Basin 26, Basin 25 associated drainage 
infrastructure and stormwater servicing connections. 
The proposed development has been prepared having regard to the planned regional stormwater 
infrastructure framework and associated servicing interfaces. The proposal will ultimately connect into the 
regional stormwater network following delivery of the Sydney Water infrastructure. In the interim, temporary 
stormwater management measures will be implemented to achieve the relevant stormwater quantity and 
quality requirements applying to development within the MRP. 
Figure 13 Extract of MRP IWCP  
  
 
Source: Sydney Water  

[[page 25]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 25 
 
 
3.3 Project Justification 
Table 7 Summary of Strategic Context  
Strategic Plan / 
Policy 
Relevance to the Proposal 
Sydney Plan The Sydney Plan was released in August 2025 and is the NSW Government’s 
proposed 20-year strategic land-use framework to guide growth and development 
across Greater Sydney to 2045, which proposes to replace the existing Metropolis of 
Three Cities plan. It establishes a coordinated approach to delivering housing, jobs, 
infrastructure and services in line with population growth, with a strong emphasis on 
housing supply and affordability, economic productivity, transport connectivity and 
liveability. 
The proposal is consistent with the strategic direction of the Sydney Plan, which 
identifies Western Sydney as a significant focus for future employment and 
industrial growth supported by major transport, freight and infrastructure 
investment associated with the Western Sydney International Airport and broader 
Western Sydney freight network. 
The proposal aligns with “Response 4: Grow well-located jobs”, which supports 
employment growth within accessible and well-connected locations across Sydney. 
The site is located within the MRP of the Western Sydney Employment Area, being a 
planned industrial precinct with access to major transport, freight and utility 
infrastructure. 
The proposal is also consistent with “Response 8: Secure an ongoing pipeline of 
productive industrial lands”, which recognises that Sydney’s industrial lands support 
activities including “data centres, warehousing and local manufacturing” and 
supports the diversification and intensification of industrial lands. 
The proposal facilitates a data centre within a planned industrial precinct and 
contributes to the diversification of employment land uses within the MRP. The 
proposal also aligns with “Response 5: Align infrastructure to planned growth” 
through integration with planned utility and servicing infrastructure within the 
precinct. 
Statewide Industrial 
Lands Policy  
The Statewide Policy for Industrial Lands establishes a statewide framework for the 
protection, management and development of industrial lands in response to 
increasing demand for industrial land, limited development-ready supply and 
pressure from non-industrial uses. The Policy seeks to support employment growth, 
industrial land supply, infrastructure coordination and emerging industries through 
a consistent strategic planning framework. 
The proposal is consistent with the objectives of the Statewide Policy for Industrial 
Lands to: 
▪ secure, intensify and actively manage industrial lands  
▪ support a pipeline of development ready industrial lands to meet future 
needs; and  
▪ respond to the changing needs of industry, including emerging industries and 
support intensification, diversification, innovation or transition to new 
employment opportunities.  
The site is located within the MRP of the WSEA, being a strategically planned 
industrial precinct within proximity to the Western Sydney International Airport, 
regional motorway network and existing and planned utility infrastructure. A large 
portion of the MRP that is identified as part of the proposed Mamre Road intermodal 
[[page 26]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 26 
 
 
terminal is categorised under the Statewide Policy as ‘state significant’ industrial 
lands. The Lots 43 and 90 site is situated outside of this area and categorised as 
‘regionally significant’ industrial lands. 
While the Statewide Policy for Industrial Lands predominantly references traditional 
industrial, warehousing and freight-related activities, it also recognises the role of 
industrial lands in supporting emerging industries and integrated enterprises with a 
mix of administration, production, warehousing, research and development. The 
proposal supports the diversification of industrial land uses through the delivery of 
digital infrastructure within a planned industrial precinct. 
Western Sydney 
Aerotropolis Plan 
The Western Sydney Aerotropolis Plan (WSAP) identifies the Aerotropolis as a 
nationally significant employment and infrastructure area supporting advanced 
industries, freight, logistics and technology-based land uses. The MRP is identified as 
an early employment precinct intended to accommodate large-scale industrial and 
infrastructure development associated with the WSEA. The proposal is consistent 
with this strategic direction as it facilitates a large-scale digital infrastructure use 
within a planned industrial precinct with access to major transport, freight and utility 
infrastructure. 
Mamre Road 
Precinct Structure 
Plan 
The MRP Structure Plan (Structure Plan) identifies the precinct as “a world-class 
industrial area, primarily catering for warehousing and logistics on larger 
consolidated land parcels close to the Western Sydney Airport”. The Structure Plan 
identifies the precinct for industrial and employment generating land uses 
supported by coordinated infrastructure delivery, regional freight connectivity and 
environmental management. 
The site is located in proximity to the future Southern Link Road (SLR) and Aldington 
Road intersection, which traverses the adjoining lot to the north of Lot 43. 
Data centres are identified as critical infrastructure to driving investment and 
growth of the NSW economy and has broader economic benefits which generate 
employment and greater opportunities for industry. 
The proposal is consistent with the Structure Plan as it:  
▪ facilitates an employment generating industrial land use within the IN1 
General Industrial zone;  
▪ utilises a large, consolidated  landholding within the precinct;  
▪ integrates with planned regional infrastructure and servicing networks; and  
▪ is compatible with the evolving industrial character of the MRP. 
Future Transport 
Strategy 2056 
The Future Transport Strategy 2056 identifies the Western Parkland City as a major 
focus for future employment growth supported by integrated transport and freight 
infrastructure. The proposal benefits from proximity to the future M12 Motorway, 
Mamre Road upgrades, the Western Sydney Freight Line, the broader WSEA freight 
network and future SLR connections.  
NSW Data Centre 
Planning and 
Investment 
Principles 
The NSW Government’s Data Centre Planning and Investment Principles recognise 
the importance of data centres as critical enabling infrastructure supporting 
economic growth, innovation and digital services. The proposal is consistent with 
these principles as it supports investment in digital infrastructure, provides privately 
funded infrastructure delivery, targets efficient energy and resource use outcomes, 
will be subject to detailed technical investigations and transparent environmental 
assessment processes and is located within a planned industrial precinct intended 
to accommodate large-scale employment uses. 
[[page 27]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 27 
 
 
NSW Data Centre 
Guidelines 
The NSW Data Centre Guidelines (Guidelines) was released by Infrastructure NSW in 
August 2026. These Guidelines follow the NSW Data Centre Consultation Paper 
released by INSW in March 2026. The Guidelines convert the strategic directions of 
the NSW Data Centre Consultation Paper into a formal assessment framework that 
seeks to accelerate data centre investment while ensuring proponents contribute to 
renewable energy, water security, infrastructure funding, community outcomes and 
workforce development. 
There are 6 principles and 17 performance measures introduced to guide future 
planning for data centres which will be addressed through the planning assessment 
process of this SSDA. 
Penrith Local 
Strategic Planning 
Statement 
The Penrith Local Strategic Planning Statement (LSPS) identifies the Western Sydney 
International Airport and surrounding employment precincts as key economic 
drivers for the region. The proposal supports Planning Priority 12 – Enhance and grow 
Penrith’s economic triangle, by contributing to the diversification of employment 
uses within the MRP and strengthening the region’s role as a strategic employment 
hub. 
Penrith Employment 
Lands Strategy 2021 
The Penrith Employment Lands Strategy (ELS) identifies the MRP as a major future 
employment area supporting industrial and logistics development associated with 
the Western Sydney Airport. The proposal is consistent with the strategy as it delivers 
significant investment within the MRP, supports ongoing employment generation, 
contributes to the diversification of industrial land uses and aligns with the strategic 
role of the WSEA. 
 
  
[[page 28]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 28 
 
 
Figure 14 Extract of Mamre Road Structure Plan (June 2026)  
 
Source: DPHI  
3.4 Cumulative Impacts with Future Projects 
The site is located within the MRP which is zoned under the I&E SEPP. There are a number of likely future 
developments within the precinct which may be relevant in the cumulative impact assessment of the 
proposal. These are summarised in Figure 15 and Table 8 below.   
There is one (1) approved data centre in the MRP, consisting of the Aldington Road Data Centre (SSD-10101987) 
located at 706-769 Mamre Road, Kemps Creek. 
In addition, there are two (2) data centre proposals including the Mamre Road Data Centre Campus (SSD- 
92743706) and the KC1 Data Centre, Kemps Creek (SSD-133677993) lodged or in the process of being lodged 
with DPHI. 

[[page 29]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 29 
 
 
Figure 15 Adjacent Development Applications  
 
Source: Urbis  
Table 8 Approved and Likely Future Developments  
Reference 
Number 
Site Landowner Status GFA Proposed / 
Approved 
1  SSD-9522: The Yards 
Warehouse Estate 
Frasers / Altis 
JV  
Mod 8 determined 
(approved) 
MOD 6: 173, 931sqm 
MOD 8: N/A – condition 
amendment.  
2 SSD-10101987: Kemps 
Creek Data Centre  
ARUP  Determined 
Mod 1: Approved  
60,943sqm  
MOD 1: no change to 
GFA 
3 SSD-25725029: ARDEX 
Warehouse and 
Manufacturing Facility 
Frasers / Altis 
JV  
Approved 
Mod 1: Approved  
27,470sqm 
MOD 1: No change to 
approved GFA 

[[page 30]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 30 
 
 
4 DA22/1172: Probiotic 
Warehouse Facility 
 
 
SSD-133677993 
KC1 Data Centre, 
Kemps Creek 
Frasers / Altis 
JV  
 
 
CDC Data 
Centres 
 
Approved 
MOD 1: (Mod25/0007) 
approved 
 
Request for SEARs 
35,963sqm  
 
 
 
Four storey data centre 
building with a total 
power consumption of 
144 MW. 
5 DA22/0671: Cargoline 
Warehouse 
Frasers / Altis 
JV  
Approved 
MOD 1: (Mod24/0159) 
approved 
30,596.3sqm 
 
6 SSD-10479: 200 
Aldington 
Road Concept 
Proposal 
Warehosue & Cafe 
MOD 1 /2 /3 
Detailed SSDAs: SSD-
61212208 / SSD-
64589711 / SSD-
64583708 / SSD-
79300218 
Stockland & Fife 
Capital  
Concept Proposal:  
MOD 6: Assessment 
MOD 7: Assessment 
340,540sqm (approved 
Concept Proposal) 
MOD 4: 51,027sqm 
(approved Stage 1)  
7a SSD-9138102: Westlink 
Industrial Estate Stage 
1 
ESR  Current Mod 7 
Latest Mod 
Determined: MOD 6 
MOD 2-5: Determined 
Stage 1 Mod 6: 
approved 81,447sqm 
 
7b SSD-46983729: 
Westlink Industrial 
Estate Stage 2 
Warehouse Building 
ESR  MOD 1  40,720sqm 
8 SSD-30871587: 805-817 
Mamre Road, Kemps 
Creek 
 
Warehouse Buildings 
805 Property 
Trust  
Assessment 25,340sqm 
9 SSD-17647189: Access 
Logistics Estate (884-
928 Mamre Road, 
Kemps Creek) 
Altis Property 
Partners  
Determined 
MOD 1 & 2: Approved 
MOD 3: RFI 
39,161sqm  
10 SSD-23480429: 
Westgate 253-267 
Aldington Road  
Icon Oceania Approved 
Mod 1 approved 
Mod 2 under 
assessment 
34,245sqm  
[[page 31]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 31 
 
 
11 SSD-74784709: 1-51 
Aldington Road Estate  
The Gibb Group 
Developments 
Discretionary 
Trust  
Prepare EIS  49,895sqm (3 
warehouses 47,365sqm 
of GFA, and 2530sqm of 
office space.)  
12 SSD-32722834: Dexus 
Kemps Creek – 113-153 
Aldington Road  
Dexus 
Wholesale 
Management 
Limited  
Approved 68,914sqm  
13 SSD-17552047: The 
Edge Estate (155-217 
Aldington Road Estate)  
Frasers Property 
Industrial  
Approved 
Mod 1: approved 
153,343sqm  
14 SSD-10272349: Yiribana 
Logistics Estate  
The GPT Group  Determined  
MOD 1: Assessment  
54,982 sqm  
Mod 1: No proposed GFA 
changes 
15 SSD-30628110: Summit 
at Kemps Creek 706-
752 Mamre Road  
Aliro and ISPT  Response to 
Submissions 
244,413sqm 
16 Aspect Industrial Estate  
SSD-10448  
Mirvac Concept and Stage 1 
- Latest Mod  
Determined: MOD 9 
(Mod 10 under 
assessment) 
Mod 9: 245,296sqm 
17 DA17/1247: BAPS 
Temple 
BAPS Temple Approved 19,198 sqm (place of 
public worship) 
18 DA22/0530: 74 - 104 
Aldington Road 
Fife Land 3 Pty 
Ltd 
Approved N/A (subdivision and 
site preparation works 
for future warehouses) 
19 DA24/0703: 285 
Aldington Road 
Warehouse 
Warehouse Buildings 
ESR Ongoing Court 
Proceedings 
41,403sqm 
20 DA22/0205: 657-769 
Mamre Road, Kemps 
Creek Lot 9 Warehouse 
Frasers / Altis 
JV  
Approved 18,742sqm 
21 DA23/0067: Yiribana 
Industrial Estate, 771-
781 Mamre Road, 
Kemps Creek 
The GPT Group Approved 24,953sqm 
22 DA24/0268: 258-270, 
244-256, and part of 
272 Aldington Road. 
Stockland 
Development 
Pty ltd 
Assessment N/A (subdivision and 
site preparation works 
for future warehouses 
and access road) 
[[page 32]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 32 
 
 
23 DA25/0034: 859-917 
Mamre Road, Kemps 
Creek. 
- Under Assessment N/A (subdivision and 
site preparation works 
for future warehouses 
and access road) 
24  DA25/0505 (99-111 
ALDINGTON ROAD 
KEMPS CREEK)  
Rams: Fraser 
Property Group 
Pty Ltd 
Public Exhibition  
 
Proposed 16,038sqm 
(warehouse 15,440sqm 
+ office GF, undercroft 
carpark entry office, 
dock office)  
3.5 Agreement with Other Parties 
The Applicant will seek to enter into an agreement with Transgrid to provide the required electricity 
infrastructure to service the development. This SSDA seeks consent for the construction of a switching station 
and substation to be designed with Transgrid to support additional future capacity and to form part of 
Transgrid’s network. 
The Applicant is also in discussions with Sydney Water in relation to the proposed regional stormwater 
infrastructure on site. There is the potential for an additional agreement to be entered into with Sydney Water 
to provide RSI to support the development, as well as 200 Aldington Road (SSD- SSD-10479). 
[[page 33]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 33 
 
 
4 Project 
4.1 Project Objectives 
The following objectives have been identified as forming the basis of the proposed development: 
▪ Deliver critical digital infrastructure through the establishment of a scalable Tier 1 hyperscale data 
centre campus within the MRP, supporting growing hyperscale demand and the long -term evolution 
of Western Sydney’s digital economy.  
▪ Support the employment and infrastructure objectives of the WSEA through delivery of a technology -
based industrial development within a planned infrastructure corridor.  
▪ Leverage the site’s proximity to major transport, freight, energy and utility infrastructure, including WSI, 
to deliver an efficient and regionally integrated data centre campus.  
▪ Deliver a staged and master -planned development that integrates with planned precinct 
infrastructure and appropriately responds to environmental, servicing, operational and aviation 
safeguarding considerations.  
▪ Pursue sustainable development outcomes through energy -efficient design, low water use and 
appropriate environmental management measures . 
▪ Deliver and fund new transmission capacity for the NSW network through the Ropes Creek switching 
station and Line 14 duplication, that supports the proposed data centre campus and also the broader 
economic growth of the Western Sydney region.  
▪ Unlock 1 gigawatt ( GW) of total connection capacity supported by staged investment and committed 
demand. 
Figure 16 Project 3D Concept Render  
 
Source: Gensler  
 
 
 

[[page 34]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 34 
 
 
4.2 Proposed Development 
The proposal seeks approval for the construction and operation of a data centre campus. Specifically, the 
SSDA seeks consent for: 
▪ Construction, fit -out and operation of two data centre buildings, including:  
– an anticipated IT load capacity of approximately 342 –360MW; 
– a maximum building height of approximately 36 metres and generally comprises three -storey 
data centre buildings ; 
– air-cooled operational approach and does not utilise water -based cooling systems as part of 
standard operations ; and 
▪ Supporting structures and infrastructure for data centre operations including:  
– ancillary administration and operational support areas;  
– a 1,000 MVA substation and associated switch ing station infrastructure;  
– associated transmission infrastructure and lead -in transmission lines;  
– diesel storage of approximately 4,300 tonnes per building and backup power infrastructure;  
– lithium battery storage of approximately 49,000L of lithium per building  
– internal roads, hardstand areas, parking and servicing infrastructure;  
– landscaping, public domain and environmental interface works;  
– stormwater management infrastructure;  and 
– utility servicing infrastructure . 
▪ Staged delivery of the proposal in the following stages:  
– Stage 1 – southern data centre building, administration areas, substation and switch ing station 
infrastructure, site entry and associated road infrastructure; and  
– Stage 2 – northern data centre building and associated road and site infrastructure.  
▪ Subdivision and amalgamation works associated with the consolidation of Lots 43 and 90 , and the 
creation a new lot for the substation (currently in Lot 90).  
Figure 17 Proposed Development Staging  
 
Source: Gensler  

[[page 35]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 35 
 
 
Figure 18 Proposed Development Layout  
  
Source: Gensler   
Figure 19 Proposed Development Sections  
Source: Gensler  
 
 
 
 
 
 

[[page 36]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 36 
 
 
Figure 20 General Arrangement Plan – Southern Data Centre Building  
 
Source: Gensler  
Figure 21 General Arrangement Plan – Northern Data Centre Building  
 
Source: Gensler  

[[page 37]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 37 
 
 
4.3 Project Details 
4.3.1 Proposed Access 
Operational and construction access associated with the proposal is proposed to be facilitated via the 
approved 200 Aldington Road industrial road network to the south (see Section 3.2 for context). The overall 
intended vehicular access route is shown in Figure 22. 
All construction and operational site access is provided from Aldington Road to the south. There is no access 
proposed from Bakers Lane to the northwest of the site. This is consistent with the access strategy approved 
for 200 Aldington Road (SSD-10479) through the LOG-E. 
Figure 22 Overview of Vehicular Access  
 
Source: Ason  
4.3.2 Power Supply and Indicative Power Consumption  
The proposed power servicing strategy required to support the proposal comprises a 1,000 MVA substation, 
switching station, associated transmission infrastructure and utility servicing requirements. The assessment 
will document ongoing consultation with Transgrid, Lumea and relevant utility providers regarding the 
proposed connection strategy and infrastructure delivery pathway.  
The proposal will seek consent for the substation and associated infrastructure work which will be delivered 
on site to service the proposed data centre. The substation and switching station are to be designed with and 
delivered on behalf of Transgrid to support additional future capacity for the site and precinct The proposed 

[[page 38]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 38 
 
 
substation will comprise of the subdivision of a lot for dedication to Transgrid, which will form part of the 
proposed works. 
Figure 23 below illustrates the indicative power infrastructure required to connect the substation into the 
Transgrid network. The proposed power infrastructure works comprises the switching station (blue) and 
substation (green) including lead in transmission lines (Lines 30 and 14) (red). 
Figure 23 Proposed Power Infrastructure  
 
Source: Gensler  
4.3.2.1 Flexible Loading Arrangements  
Through initial engagement with Transgrid, it has been requested for Stockland to adopt a flexible loading 
arrangement with Transgrid to obtain power supply for the proposal. This is to help maximise the value of 
existing electricity infrastructure, delaying unnecessary upgrades while maintaining system reliability. A 
flexible loading arrangement is a connection model that enables a customer to access electricity network 
capacity earlier by agreeing to temporarily reduce demand during defined network constraint events. 
Flexible loading arrangements can: 
▪ Unlock development in strategically important employment precincts that might otherwise remain 
constrained by power network timing.  
▪ Improve infrastructure planning efficiency and reduce the risk of overbuilding network assets ahead of 
demand. 
▪ Facilitate the timely delivery of digital infrastructure that underpins modern economic activity and 
government services.  
▪ Unlock development -ready land and support the faster delivery of local employment opportunities.  
▪ Provide a practical mechanism to support economic growth while preserving electricity system 
reliability and security.  
▪ Enable major projects such as data centres to connect to the electricity network earlier while 
maintaining network security.  
Stockland are undertaking further consultation with Transgrid to incorporate the flexible loading arrangement 
request to unlock broader benefits for the State and local government, including accelerated investment, job 

[[page 39]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 39 
 
 
creation, faster activation of employment precincts, improved utilisation of existing infrastructure, more 
efficient infrastructure planning, and earlier delivery of critical digital infrastructure that supports economic 
growth. 
4.3.3 On-site Storage 
The proposed on-site storage to support the 342–360MW data centre including: 
▪ Diesel: approximately 5,000 Litres / 4,300 tonnes per building 
▪ Lithium-ion batteries: approximately 49,000 Litres per building  
4.3.4 Generator Testing 
The generator testing required for the data centre will be subject to the data centre operator requirements 
and be further defined within the EIS. It is intended for testing to be below the 200 hours threshold under the 
Clause 17 in Schedule 1 of the POEO Act, with anticipated testing at approximately 192 hours per year at the 
time of writing. 
4.3.5 Development Staging 
The proposed development is intended to be delivered across two (2) stages, comprising of the following: 
▪ Stage 1 – southern data centre building, administration areas, substation and switch ing station 
infrastructure, site entry and associated road infrastructure; and  
▪ Stage 2 – northern data centre building and associated road and site infrastructure.  
4.3.6 Off-Site Infrastructure Upgrade Works 
There are no off-site upgrade works, such as high voltage power connections, road upgrades or regional 
stormwater infrastructure works, sought as part of the proposal. 
[[page 40]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 40 
 
 
5 Statutory Context 
This section of the report provides an overview of the key statutory requirements relevant to the site and the 
project, including: 
▪ Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979;  
▪ Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021;  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Planning Systems) 2021;  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Industry and Employment) 2021;  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Precincts – Western Parkland City) 2021;  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021;  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Resilience and Hazards) 2021;  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Biodiversity and Conservation) 2021;  
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 2022;  
▪ Mamre Road Precinct Development Control Plan 2021; and  
▪ Cumberland Plain Conservation Plan  
The following tables categorise and summarises the relevant requirements in accordance with the DPHI 
guidelines. Each of these matters will be addressed in further detail within the future EIS. 
5.1 Statutory Requirements 
The following table categorises and summarises the relevant requirements in accordance with the DPHI State 
Significant Development Guidelines. 
Table 9 Identification of Statutory Requirements for the Project  
Statutory Relevance Action 
Power to grant approval Development consent will be sought under Division 4.7 of the Environmental 
Planning and Assessment Act 1979 (EP&A Act) as SSD.  
Schedule 1, Clause 25 of the Planning Systems SEPP identifies development for 
the purposes of data centres with a total power consumption of more than 15 
megawatts as SSD.  
The proposed development comprises a hyperscale data centre campus with 
an anticipated IT load of approximately 342–360MW and is therefore declared 
SSD for the purposes of the EP&A Act.  
Permissibility The proposed development comprises a data centre campus and associated 
infrastructure, including substations, switching station and transmission 
infrastructure. Data centres are characterised as a ‘high technology industry’, 
which is a type of ‘light industry’ under the Standard Instrument.  
The site is predominantly zoned IN1 General Industrial under the State 
Environmental Planning Policy (Industry and Employment) 2021 (I&E SEPP).  
The proposed development is permissible with consent within the IN1 General 
Industrial zone. Ancillary electrical infrastructure and utility servicing associated 
with the data centre use are also permissible as part of the proposed 
development. 
[[page 41]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 41 
 
 
Other approvals 
(General) 
Pursuant to Section 4.41 of the EP&A Act, the following approvals are not required 
for SSD and are integrated into the SSD assessment process where applicable: • 
approval under the Heritage Act 1977;  
▪ Aboriginal Heritage Impact Permit (AHIP) under the National Parks and 
Wildlife Act 1974;  
▪ bush fire safety authority under the Rural Fires Act 1997;  
▪ approvals under the Water Management Act 2000 (excluding aquifer 
interference approvals if applicable); and  
▪ permits under the Fisheries Management Act 1994.  
The proposal requires an Environment Protection Licence (EPL) in accordance 
with Clause 9 (chemical storage) in Schedule 1 of the Protection of the 
Environment Operations Act 1997 (POEO Act) as the proposal includes the 
storage of more than 2,000 tonnes of diesel and lithium-ion batteries. 
The associated with electricity generation activities and diesel storage 
thresholds as required for the proposal will be detailed as part of the EIS.  
Any other utility servicing approvals and agreements with relevant authorities, 
road works approvals or agreements associated with regional stormwater 
infrastructure and servicing arrangements will be addressed as part of the EIS. 
It is understood EPL exemptions can be sought through consultation with NSW 
Environment Protection Authority (EPA), which will be explored through ongoing 
engagement with DPHI and EPA. 
5.2 Pre-Conditions 
Table 10 outlines the pre-conditions to exercising the power to grant approval which are relevant to the 
project. 
Table 10 Pre-Conditions  
Statutory Reference Pre-Condition 
Environmental Planning and 
Assessment Regulation 2021 
Section 35 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 
(the Regulation) requires that a development application within the WSEA 
be accompanied by an assessment of consistency with the relevant precinct 
structure planning framework. The EIS will include an assessment of 
consistency with the MRP Structure Plan and broader Western Sydney 
Aerotropolis planning framework. 
Environmental Planning and 
Assessment Regulation 2021 
Section 66 of the Regulation relates to contributions plans applying to certain 
areas within Sydney. The Mamre Road Precinct Development Contributions 
Plan (MRP CP) applies to the site, and relevant contribution requirements will 
be addressed as part of the future SSDA. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Industry 
and Employment) 2021 
The proposal is required to satisfy the relevant provisions of Chapter 2 – 
Western Sydney Employment Area, including matters relating to subdivision, 
public utility infrastructure, earthworks, flood prone land and development 
within the MRP. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Industry 
Development consent must not be granted unless the consent authority is 
satisfied that adequate arrangements have been made for the provision of 
public utility infrastructure necessary to service the development. 
[[page 42]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 42 
 
 
Statutory Reference Pre-Condition 
and Employment) 2021 – 
Section 2.24 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Industry 
and Employment) 2021 – 
Section 2.35 
Development within the MRP must consider the integrated freight network, 
future transport infrastructure and impacts on the broader road network and 
accessibility framework. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Industry 
and Employment) 2021 – 
Section 2.40 
Prior to granting consent for earthworks, the consent authority must consider 
matters including drainage, soil stability, flood behaviour, environmental 
impacts and visual impacts associated with the proposed earthworks. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Industry 
and Employment) 2021 – 
Section 2.41 
Development on flood prone land must demonstrate that the proposal will 
not adversely affect flood behaviour, flood storage, flow conveyance or 
surrounding land. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Precincts – 
Western Parkland City) 2021 
The proposal must address the relevant aviation safeguarding provisions 
associated with the Western Sydney International Airport, including wildlife 
hazards, airspace operations, lighting impacts and aircraft noise 
considerations. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Precincts – 
Western Parkland City) 2021 
– Section 4.19 
Development within the wildlife buffer area must consider whether the 
proposal creates wildlife attraction risks associated with airport operations. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Precincts – 
Western Parkland City) 2021 
– Section 4.22 
Development must not adversely affect prescribed airspace operations 
associated with Western Sydney International Airport. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Precincts – 
Western Parkland City) 2021 
– Section 4.39 
Development within the Aerotropolis must be consistent with the applicable 
Precinct Plan unless appropriately justified. The proposal will be assessed 
against the MRP planning framework and any proposed variations will be 
addressed through the EIS. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Resilience 
and Hazards) 2021 
Chapter 4 – Remediation of Land requires the consent authority to consider 
whether the site is contaminated and whether the land is suitable, or can be 
made suitable, for the proposed development. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Transport 
and Infrastructure) 2021 
The proposal will require consideration of traffic generating development 
provisions and impacts to the surrounding transport network. 
State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Sustainable 
Buildings) 2022 
The proposal will be required to address the applicable sustainability 
requirements for non-residential development, including energy and water 
efficiency considerations. 
[[page 43]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 43 
 
 
Statutory Reference Pre-Condition 
Biodiversity Conservation 
Act 2016 
Biodiversity impacts associated with areas outside certified urban capable 
land will be assessed where required in accordance with the Biodiversity 
Conservation Act 2016 and associated assessment framework. 
Protection of the 
Environment Operations Act 
1997 
The proposal requires an EPL associated with diesel storage infrastructure. 
The proposal requires an EPL under in accordance with Clause 9 (chemical 
storage) in Schedule 1 of the Protection of the Environment Operations Act 
1997 (POEO Act) as the proposal includes the storage of more than 2,000 
tonnes of diesel and lithium-ion batteries. Each data centre building is 
proposed to contain approximately 5,000 kilolitres (4,300 tonnes) of diesel 
storage quantities. 
In relation to electricity generation activities, the intention is for the proposal 
to stay below the 200-hour operating threshold for backup generators in 
accordance with Clause 17 (electricity generation) in Schedule 1 of the POEO 
Act. 
Relevant licensing requirements will be addressed through detailed 
assessment and consultation with the EPA. 
5.3 Mandatory Considerations 
Table 11 outlines the relevant pre-conditions to exercising the power to grant approval and the section where 
these matters are addressed within the EIS. 
Table 11 Mandatory Considerations  
Statutory Reference Matters for Consideration 
Consideration under the EP&A Act and Regulations 
Section 1.3 The relevant objects of the Environmental Planning and 
Assessment Act 1979 will be considered as part of the 
assessment of the proposal, including the promotion of orderly 
and economic development, environmental protection, 
ecologically sustainable development and community 
participation. 
Section 4.15(1)(a)(i) Relevant 
environmental planning instrument 
The proposal will be assessed having regard to all relevant 
environmental planning instruments applying to the site and 
development. 
Section 4.15(1)(a)(ii) Relevant draft 
environmental planning instrument 
Consideration will be given to any relevant draft environmental 
planning instruments applying to the site, where applicable. At 
the time of preparing this report, no draft environmental planning 
instruments of direct relevance have been identified. 
Section 4.15(1)(a)(iii) Relevant 
development control plan 
The proposal will be assessed having regard to the relevant 
provisions of the MRP DCP. 
[[page 44]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 44 
 
 
Section 4.15(1)(a)(iiia) any planning 
agreement or draft planning 
agreement 
Consideration will be given to any applicable planning 
agreements or draft planning agreements relevant to the 
proposal and delivery of infrastructure within the MRP. 
Section 4.15(1)(a)(iv) relevant matters 
prescribed by the Regulations. 
Relevant matters prescribed by the Environmental Planning and 
Assessment Regulation 2021 will be considered as part of the 
assessment process. 
Section 4.15(1)(b) the likely impacts of 
that development, including 
environmental impacts on both the 
natural and built environments, and 
social and economic impacts in the 
locality, 
The likely impacts of the development will be assessed, including 
environmental, social and economic impacts associated with 
construction and operation of the proposal. 
Section 4.15(1)(c) The suitability of the 
site for the development 
The suitability of the site for the proposed development will be 
assessed having regard to the physical characteristics of the site, 
surrounding land uses, infrastructure servicing and 
environmental constraints. 
Section 4.15(1)(d) Any submissions 
made in accordance with the Act or 
regulations   
Consideration will be given to submissions received during the 
public exhibition and assessment process in accordance with the 
EP&A Act and Regulation. 
Section 4.15(1)(e) The Public Interest The public interest will be considered as part of the assessment 
of the proposal, including the strategic, economic and 
infrastructure benefits associated with the development. 
Section 4.24  The proposal is not currently seeking concept development 
consent under Section 4.24 of the EP&A Act. 
Mandatory relevant considerations under EPIs 
State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Industry and Employment) 2021 
Chapter 2 – Western Sydney Employment Area is the principal 
land use planning framework applying to the site and includes 
provisions relating to permissibility, subdivision, public utility 
infrastructure, earthworks, flood prone land and development 
within the MRP. The proposal will be assessed against the 
relevant objectives and provisions applying to high technology 
industry development within the IN1 General Industrial zone and 
broader precinct planning framework. 
State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Precincts – Western Parkland City) 2021 
Chapter 4 – Western Sydney Aerotropolis includes the principal 
aviation safeguarding provisions applying to the site. Relevant 
matters include airport safeguarding, wildlife hazards, airspace 
operations, flood planning, vegetation management and design 
review considerations associated with development within the 
Aerotropolis. 
State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Transport and Infrastructure) 2021 
Relevant provisions relating to traffic generating development 
and development in proximity to major transport and electricity 
infrastructure will be considered as part of the SSDA. The 
proposal will require consultation with relevant transport and 
infrastructure agencies where applicable. 
[[page 45]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 45 
 
 
State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Resilience and Hazards) 2021 
The proposal will be assessed having regard to Chapter 3 
relating to hazardous development and Chapter 4 relating to 
contamination and remediation of land. Detailed contamination 
and hazards assessment will be undertaken as part of the EIS 
where required. 
State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Biodiversity and Conservation) 2021 
Relevant biodiversity, vegetation and water catchment provisions 
under the Biodiversity and Conservation SEPP will be considered 
as part of the SSDA, including matters associated with 
biodiversity certification, ecological assessment and vegetation 
management. 
State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Sustainable Buildings) 2022 
The proposal will address the relevant sustainability 
requirements applying to non-residential development, including 
energy efficiency and water efficiency considerations relevant to 
large-scale data centre development. 
Considerations under other legislation 
Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 The proposal will be assessed having regard to the Biodiversity 
Conservation Act 2016, including biodiversity certification under 
the Cumberland Plain Conservation Plan (CPCP) and any 
biodiversity assessment requirements associated with areas 
outside certified urban capable land. 
Environment Protection and Biodiversity 
Conservation Act 1999 
The proposal will be assessed having regard to the Environment 
Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 to determine 
whether referral is required in relation to any potential impacts on 
Matters of National Environmental Significance. 
Protection of the Environment 
Operations Act 1997 
The proposal may require an Environment Protection Licence 
associated with electricity generation activities and diesel 
storage infrastructure. Operational environmental management 
requirements associated with air quality, noise and emissions will 
be considered as part of the assessment process. 
Water Management Act 2000 The proposal will consider the relevant provisions of the Water 
Management Act 2000 associated with waterfront land, riparian 
corridors, drainage infrastructure and stormwater management. 
National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 Aboriginal cultural heritage matters will be considered as part of 
the SSDA process, including assessment of potential impacts to 
Aboriginal objects or areas of archaeological sensitivity. 
Heritage Act 1977 Non-Aboriginal heritage considerations relevant to the site and 
surrounding locality will be assessed as part of the EIS where 
applicable. 
Rural Fires Act 1997 The proposal will be assessed having regard to bushfire planning 
requirements and Planning for Bush Fire Protection having regard 
to the site’s bushfire prone land mapping and surrounding 
vegetation interfaces. 
Roads Act 1993 Any works within or affecting public roads will be undertaken 
having regard to the relevant requirements of the Roads Act 1993 
and consultation with the relevant roads authorities where 
required. 
[[page 46]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 46 
 
 
Development Control Plan 
Mamre Road Precinct Development 
Control Plan 2021 
The proposal will be assessed having regard to the relevant 
provisions of the MRP DCP, including precinct planning outcomes, 
subdivision design, built form, landscaping, stormwater 
management, flooding, biodiversity, bushfire, transport, utilities 
infrastructure and general requirements for industrial 
development within the MRP. 
 
 
[[page 47]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 47 
 
 
6 Stakeholder Engagement 
The following sections of the report describe the engagement activities that have already been carried out 
for the project, and the engagement to be carried out during the preparation of the EIS. 
6.1 Engagement Carried Out 
Significant engagement has been carried out for the overall project which is summarised in the table below. 
Table 12 Agency Engagement  
Agency / 
Stakeholder 
Engagement Undertaken Purpose 
NSW Investment 
Delivery Authority 
(IDA) 
Inception meeting held on 16 April 
2026 and ongoing coordination 
regarding the project pathway and 
strategic infrastructure matters. 
To discuss the project approval pathway, 
strategic significance of the proposal and key 
infrastructure and servicing considerations. 
Meeting held on 23 July 2026 to 
discuss the Project Plan for the 
proposal. 
To discuss the Project Plan and the engagement 
strategy/timeframes to resolve key project 
issues with the IDA. 
Department of 
Planning, Housing 
and Infrastructure 
(DPHI) 
Pre-scoping discussions and 
ongoing engagement regarding the 
preparation of the Scoping Report 
and future SSDA documentation. 
To inform the scope of environmental 
assessment and key matters requiring 
consideration as part of the SSDA process. 
Transgrid / Power 
Infrastructure 
Stakeholders 
Meeting held on 19 June 2026 
regarding power servicing 
requirements, connection pathways 
and infrastructure delivery. Ongoing 
consultation underway. 
To progress power supply investigations and 
coordinate infrastructure requirements 
associated with the proposed hyperscale data 
centre campus. 
Penrith City 
Council 
Meeting held on 24 July 2026 to 
introduce the proposal to Council 
and the merits of the proposal and 
key environmental factors to further 
assessment. 
Initial consultation and ongoing 
engagement with Council will be 
undertaken as part of the broader 
stakeholder engagement process. 
To provide updates on the proposal and discuss 
local planning, infrastructure and community 
considerations. 
Environment 
Protection 
Authority 
Meeting held on 31 July 2026 to 
introduce the proposal to the EPA 
and proposed operations in the 
context of the EPL thresholds. The 
proposed methodology to address 
noise and air quality impacts was 
also discussed.  
To provide updates on the proposal and the 
ongoing methodology to manage noise and air 
quality impacts. It was acknowledged that 
ongoing consultation with EPA was required to 
appropriate manage noise and air quality 
impacts.  
The proposal seeks to store 5,000 Litres / 4,300 
tonnes of diesel storage per building, which 
exceeds the 2,000-tonne threshold. However in 
relation to electricity generation, the anticipated 
[[page 48]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 48 
 
 
testing is at approximately 192 hours per year at 
the time of writing, which is below the 200 hour-
threshold. 
It is understood EPL exemptions can be sought 
through consultation with EPA, which will be 
explored through ongoing engagement with 
DPHI and EPA as part of the EIS. 
6.2 Future Engagement to be Carried out by the Applicant 
Further community and stakeholder consultation will be undertaken in the preparation and assessment of 
the EIS as summarised in the table below. 
Table 13 Future Engagement  
Agency / 
Stakeholder 
Engagement to be Undertaken Purpose 
Surrounding 
Landowners and 
Businesses 
Planned consultation including direct 
correspondence, community information 
material and engagement activities 
during July and August 2026. 
To inform surrounding stakeholders of 
the proposal and provide opportunities 
for feedback during project 
development. 
Sensitive Receivers Direct emails, letters and residential door 
knocking proposed as part of the 
engagement program. 
To communicate key project 
information and understand any local 
issues or concerns relevant to the 
proposal. 
Derrubbin Local 
Aboriginal Land 
Council 
Engagement to be undertaken through 
the Aboriginal cultural heritage 
assessment process. 
To support consultation regarding 
Aboriginal cultural heritage and 
opportunities for ongoing engagement 
throughout the assessment process. 
Local, State and 
Federal Government 
Stakeholders 
Ongoing engagement coordinated by 
Stockland and the project team. 
To provide updates on the proposal 
and coordinate matters relating to 
infrastructure, planning and strategic 
outcomes. 
Community Project webpage, online survey, 1800 
contact line and online information 
session proposed as part of the 
engagement program. 
To facilitate community awareness of 
the proposal and provide accessible 
channels for feedback and enquiries. 
An Engagement Outcomes Report will be provided with the EIS.   
[[page 49]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 49 
 
 
7 Proposed Assessment of Impacts 
This section identifies the key impacts which will be further investigated and assessed within the EIS, including 
the proposed approach to assessing each of these matters. It also identifies the matters addressed in the 
scoping phase that are unlikely to result in significant impacts and do not warrant further consideration in the 
EIS. 
7.1 Matters Requiring Further Assessment in the EIS 
The following table outlines the relevant matters and impacts which will be addressed in detail within the EIS. 
It outlines the matters and impacts of particular concern to the community and other stakeholders. 
Table 14 Matters requiring assessment in the EIS  
Matter Proposed Assessment Approach 
Strategic and 
Statutory 
Planning 
The EIS will include a detailed assessment of the proposal against the relevant statutory 
and strategic planning framework, including the Environmental Planning and 
Assessment Act 1979, relevant State Environmental Planning Policies, the MRP DCP and 
broader strategic planning documents applicable to the MRP and Aerotropolis. 
Built Form, 
Urban Design 
and Visual 
Impact 
The EIS will assess the proposed built form, including building height, scale, setbacks, 
architectural treatment and the relationship of the development to surrounding land 
uses within the MRP. The assessment will consider the operational requirements of the 
proposed hyperscale data centre campus and the extent to which the built form 
responds to the site context and future industrial character of the precinct. 
A Visual Impact Assessment (VIA) will assess potential visibility from surrounding public 
and private viewpoints, including Aldington Road, nearby industrial development, 
educational facilities and rural-residential interfaces. The assessment will consider 
proposed landscaping, façade treatment and screening measures intended to reduce 
visual impacts. 
Preliminary design testing and review of surrounding landform, vegetation and existing 
and approved industrial development indicate that visual impacts are likely to be 
concentrated to localised viewpoints within the immediate precinct. The EIS will include 
further analysis and verified views to assess the visual impacts of the proposal and 
identify any additional mitigation measures where required. 
Preliminary Visual Analysis 
A Preliminary Visual Analysis of the existing site context surrounding the site and the MRP 
has been undertaken to inform the preliminary design process and the VIA. Belo are 
some preliminary findings in relation to the existing character and some relevant visual 
considerations to be further progress as part of the EIS. 
Existing Character 
▪ The existing scenic character in MRP is low, comprising of existing industrial uses 
to the north and east, HV electrical infrastructure and large areas of construction 
(earthworks) to the south and in the broader area.  
▪ To the north and east is Ropes Creek and a nature reserve bushland which 
provides a natural visual buffer to the north and east.  
▪ Aldington Road rises to the south of the project site generally constraining views 
beyond approximately 500m. Aldington Road rises and bends to the west north of 
the project site also limiting visibility.  
[[page 50]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 50 
 
 
Matter Proposed Assessment Approach 
▪ There are relatively few public and private visual receivers with direct view access 
in the immediate vicinity.  
Relevant Visual Considerations  
▪ Education campuses to the northwest along Bakers Lane are setback from the 
road with visibility unlikely due to distance, building orientation, intervening 
vegetation and built form.  
▪ Visual catchment is generally constrained from tree canopy, built form or higher 
landform immediately to the north, west and east.  
▪ The proposal would not block scenic or highly valued compositions or heritage 
items. 
▪ The proposal has high compatibility with future industrial development with a 
similar built form of equivalent bulk and scale.  
▪ Urbis have not identified any high -risk visual matters as part of this preliminary 
review and the proposal is likely supportable.  
Height 
Variation 
The proposal seeks a maximum building height of approximately 36 metres, exceeding 
the indicative 20 metre height control within the MRP DCP.  
It is acknowledged that Control 3 in Section 4.2.1 of the MRP DCP states –  
3) Should the nature of the business require that part of the building exceeds the 20m 
building height control (e.g. high bay warehouses), the proponent must demonstrate 
that the taller element will not create unacceptable solar, wind and visual impacts to 
surrounding sensitive uses or impact on the environmental and open space lands or the 
public domain. 
The EIS will provide a detailed merit-based assessment of the proposed variation having 
regard to the operational requirements of the proposed data centre campus in 
accordance with this control. Visual and urban design outcomes, topography, 
surrounding built form context and the broader strategic planning framework for the MRP 
will inform the urban design and built form design response. The EIS will assess the visual, 
environmental and amenity impacts associated with the proposed height. 
It should be noted the proposed building height varies when measured from the existing 
ground level and the finished ground level. It is intended for the pad levels as proposed 
for Lot 43 DA and approved Lot 90 (DA22/0530) will be lowered from the street level, 
hence reducing the height of building when viewed from the public domain, which will be 
approximately 31m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 51]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 51 
 
 
Matter Proposed Assessment Approach 
Figure 24 indicative Building Height Analysis  
 
Source: Gensler  
Traffic, 
Transport and 
Access 
A Traffic and Transport Impact Assessment will assess the construction and operational 
traffic impacts of the proposal, including access arrangements, road network 
performance, swept path analysis, parking provision and cumulative impacts associated 
with surrounding development. The assessment will consider the proposed access 
strategy via the 200 Aldington Road industrial road network and confirm that no 
operational or construction access is proposed via Bakers Lane. 
Preliminary traffic investigations indicate that operational traffic generation associated 
with the proposal is anticipated to be comparatively low relative to traditional 
warehousing and logistics development within the precinct. The EIS will include detailed 
modelling of construction and operational traffic scenarios, intersection performance 
and cumulative impacts associated with surrounding approved and proposed industrial 
development. 
Noise and 
Vibration 
A Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment (NVIA) will assess both construction and 
operational noise impacts associated with the proposal, including mechanical plant, 
cooling infrastructure, backup generators, substations, switching station and operational 
vehicle movements. Particular consideration will be given to cumulative industrial noise 
impacts within the precinct and the evolving acoustic environment associated with 
surrounding industrial development, major transport infrastructure and WSIA operations. 
The NVIA will be undertaken having regard to the NSW Noise Policy for Industry (NPfI) and 
relevant EPA guidance and will consider the changing acoustic character of the MRP. 
Preliminary acoustic investigations undertaken to date have informed the ongoing 
development of the concept design, including consideration of air-cooled infrastructure, 
backup power systems and potential acoustic mitigation measures. The EIS will further 
assess operational noise scenarios, cumulative precinct conditions and feasible 
mitigation and operational management measures as the design progresses. 
The NVIA will undertake a detailed assessment of the proposed noise impacts against 
the EPA criteria against nearby residential receivers. 

[[page 52]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 52 
 
 
Figure 25 Preliminary Review of Nearby Sensitive Residential Receivers  
 
Source: PWNA  
A Preliminary Acoustic Assessment has been undertaken  by PWNA based on the 
proposed scheme as outlined in this Scoping Report. The preliminary assessment 
considers a range of noise mitigation and attenuation design measures which have 
been incorporated into the design , to understand the extent of noise exceedances to 
the MRP Noise Criteria at the associated receivers. These measures include:  
▪ Unit selection : Sound pods, insulated compressor, resonator, acoustic wrap on 
discharge lines . 
▪ Acoustic louvres : Provides air flow while attenuating noise.  
▪ Optimise assessed weather conditions : Assessment of the 95th percentile of the 
weather condition in each assessment period reduces the assessed temperature . 
▪ Canopies between chillers : Provides localised shielding and absorption  
Figure 26 provides the exceedances  to nearby sensitive receivers  following the 
adoption of the measures detailed above . These preliminary findings will be subject to  
further investigat ion and mitigation strategies  by Stockland in consultation with DPHI 
and EPA. 
Figure 26 Preliminary Acoustic Assessment – Noise Exceedances  
  
Source: PWNA  

[[page 53]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 53 
 
 
Matter Proposed Assessment Approach 
Air Quality An Air Quality Impact Assessment will assess potential construction and operational air 
quality impacts associated with the proposal, with a particular focus on generator 
testing and maintenance activities. The assessment will include detailed air dispersion 
modelling having regard to cumulative background conditions, approved nearby 
developments and applicable NSW EPA assessment criteria.  
The assessment will include detailed consideration of generator testing and 
maintenance regimes, cumulative background conditions and nearby approved 
developments. Preliminary investigations undertaken to date have identified testing and 
maintenance scenarios as the key operational assessment case, with further modelling 
and mitigation refinement currently underway. 
Power 
Infrastructure 
and Utilities 
The EIS will include a detailed assessment of the proposed power servicing strategy, 
including the proposed 1,000 MVA substation, switching station, associated transmission 
infrastructure and utility servicing requirements. The assessment will document ongoing 
consultation with Transgrid, Lumea and relevant utility providers regarding the proposed 
connection strategy and infrastructure delivery pathway. A connection enquiry and 
preliminary thermal modelling have been completed, with further network modelling 
currently being undertaken to support the future issuance of a Section 5.34A connection 
letter. The proposal incorporates a staged electrical infrastructure delivery framework 
aligned with the proposed development staging and anticipated energisation 
requirements. 
The EIS will assess the environmental impacts associated with the proposed electrical 
infrastructure and transmission connections, including the proposed Ropes Creek 330kV 
switching station, substation infrastructure and associated transmission lines. The 
assessment will also address land requirements, infrastructure ownership interfaces, 
constructability considerations, delivery sequencing and coordination requirements 
associated with the broader transmission network. 
The current program anticipates an Offer to Connect pathway during 2027 and initial 
power delivery targeted from Q4 2028. 
Stormwater 
and Flooding 
A Flood Impact and Stormwater Assessment will assess the proposal having regard to 
flooding behaviour, stormwater quantity and quality outcomes, overland flow 
management and integration with Sydney Water’s regional stormwater infrastructure 
framework. The assessment will consider the site’s relationship to the Ropes Creek 
corridor, proposed interim and ultimate stormwater infrastructure arrangements and 
compliance with the MRP integrated water cycle management framework and relevant 
water quality targets. 
Biodiversity 
and Ecology 
The EIS will assess the biodiversity impacts associated with the proposal, including 
impacts to vegetation, riparian interfaces and ecological corridors. Assessment will 
consider the Cumberland Plain Conservation Plan framework, biodiversity certification 
and any assessment requirements associated with non-certified land areas. 
Riparian 
Corridors and 
Waterways 
The proposal’s interface with Ropes Creek and associated riparian land will be assessed, 
including impacts to riparian corridors, water quality, drainage infrastructure and 
rehabilitation opportunities. 
Aboriginal 
Cultural 
Heritage 
An Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Assessment will be prepared to assess the potential 
impacts of the proposal on Aboriginal objects, archaeological sensitivity and cultural 
heritage values associated with the site and surrounding landscape. Consultation with 
[[page 54]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 54 
 
 
Matter Proposed Assessment Approach 
Registered Aboriginal Parties and relevant stakeholders will be undertaken as part of the 
assessment process. 
Non-Aboriginal 
Heritage 
The EIS will consider any non-Aboriginal heritage constraints relevant to the site and 
surrounding locality, including assessment of any historical archaeological potential 
where applicable. 
Bushfire A Bushfire Assessment Report will assess the proposal having regard to Planning for Bush 
Fire Protection, including defendable space, emergency access, asset protection 
measures and water supply requirements associated with the site’s bushfire prone land 
mapping. 
Contamination 
and Site 
Suitability 
The EIS will include contamination and site suitability assessment to confirm the 
suitability of the site for the proposed development and identify any remediation or 
management measures required. 
Hazard and Risk A Hazard and Risk Assessment will assess the storage and management of diesel fuel, 
lithium-ion battery infrastructure and associated electrical systems having regard to 
applicable guidelines, Australian Standards and relevant hazardous industry assessment 
requirements. The assessment will consider operational safety, fire protection, 
emergency response and separation distances associated with the proposed data 
centre infrastructure and backup power systems. 
Waste 
Management 
A Waste Management Plan will assess waste generation and management during 
construction and operation of the proposal, including classification, storage, handling 
and disposal of waste streams. 
Sustainability 
and Energy 
Efficiency 
The proposal will be assessed against relevant sustainability objectives and 
requirements, including energy efficiency, water efficiency, embodied carbon reduction 
and operational sustainability measures relevant to hyperscale data centre 
development. 
Landscape and 
Public Domain 
A Landscape Strategy and detailed landscape assessment will be prepared to assess 
tree canopy, deep soil, ecological interface treatments, public domain outcomes and 
integration of security and operational requirements within the landscape design. 
A Preliminary Landscape Concept Plan has been prepared for the site (Figure 27). The 
site is capable of achieving permeable surface target and tree canopy coverage of 
approximately 50% and 25% of the estate area, respectively. 
[[page 55]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 55 
 
 
Matter Proposed Assessment Approach 
Figure 27 Preliminary Landscape Concept Plan 
 
Source: Arcadia   
Socio-
Economic 
Impacts 
The EIS will assess the economic and employment benefits associated with the proposal, 
including construction employment, operational employment and the broader 
contribution of the proposal to digital infrastructure and economic growth within Western 
Sydney. 
Construction 
and Staging 
The EIS will describe the proposed staging strategy, construction methodology, 
construction environmental management measures and associated infrastructure 
delivery sequencing. 
Community 
and 
Stakeholder 
Engagement 
An Engagement Outcomes Report will document community and stakeholder 
consultation undertaken as part of the preparation of the EIS, including how feedback 
has informed the design and assessment of the proposal. 
 
 

[[page 56]]
 
Scoping Report - Aldington Road Data Centre  Disclaimer 56 
 
 
Disclaimer 
This report is dated 18 August 2026 and incorporates information and events up to that date only and 
excludes any information arising, or event occurring, after that date which may affect the validity of Urbis Ltd 
(Urbis) opinion in this report. Urbis prepared this report on the instructions, and for the benefit only, of 
Stockland (Instructing Party) for the purpose of Scoping Report (Purpose) and not for any other purpose or 
use. To the extent permitted by applicable law, Urbis expressly disclaims all liability, whether direct or indirect, 
to the Instructing Party which relies or purports to rely on this report for any purpose other than the Purpose, 
and to any other person which relies or purports to rely on this report for any purpose whatsoever (including 
the Purpose). 
In preparing this report, Urbis was required to make judgements which may be affected by unforeseen future 
events, the likelihood and effects of which are not capable of precise assessment. 
All surveys, forecasts, projections and recommendations contained in or associated with this report are made 
in good faith and on the basis of information supplied to Urbis at the date of this report, and upon which Urbis 
relied. Achievement of the projections and budgets set out in this report will depend, among other things, on 
the actions of others over which Urbis has no control. 
In preparing this report, Urbis may rely on or refer to documents in a language other than English, which Urbis 
may arrange to be translated. Urbis is not responsible for the accuracy or completeness of such translations 
and disclaims any liability for any statement or opinion made in this report being inaccurate or incomplete 
arising from such translations. 
Whilst Urbis has made all reasonable inquiries it believes necessary in preparing this report, it is not 
responsible for determining the completeness or accuracy of information provided to it. Urbis (including its 
officers and personnel) is not liable for any errors or omissions, including in information provided by the 
Instructing Party or another person or upon which Urbis relies, provided that such errors or omissions are not 
made by Urbis recklessly or in bad faith. 
This report has been prepared with due care and diligence by Urbis and the statements and opinions given 
by Urbis in this report are given in good faith and in the reasonable belief that they are correct and not 
misleading, subject to the limitations above.
[[page 57]]
 
Scoping Report - Kemps Creek Data Centre   57 
 
 
  urbis.com.au 
