[[page 1]]
20 January 2021          REF: WTJ20-438 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Request for Secretary’s 
Environmental Assessment 
Requirements 
 
Proposed Data Centre  
 
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North 
(Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
Prepared by Willowtree Planning on behalf of 
ARUP 
 
January 2021
[[page 2]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Document Control Table 
Document 
Reference: WTJ20-438 
Date Version Author Checked By 
10/11/2020 1 T Lythall  A Cowan  
27/11/2020 2 T Lythall  A Cowan  
20/01/2021 3 T Lythall  A Cowan  
    
 
© 2021 Willowtree Planning Pty Ltd 
This document contains material protected under copyright and intellectual property laws and is to be 
used only by and for the intended client. Any unauthorised reprint or use of this material beyond the 
purpose for which it was created is prohibited. No p art of this work may be copied, reproduced or 
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or 
by any information storage and retrieval system without express written permission from Willowtree 
Planning Pty Ltd.  
 
[[page 3]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
PART A PRELIMINARY ......................................................................................... 4 
1.1 INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................... 4 
PART B SITE ANALYSIS ....................................................................................... 5 
2.1 SITE LOCATION & EXISTING CHARACTERISTICS .................................. 5 
2.2 LOCAL AND REGIONAL CONTEXT ........................................................... 8 
PART C PROJECT SUMMARY .............................................................................. 10 
3.1 AIMS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT ............... 10 
3.2 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT .............................. 10 
3.3 DATA CENTRE OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES ................................. 12 
3.4 STAGING OF DEVELOPMENT ................................................................ 12 
3.5 CAPITAL INVESTMENT VALUE .............................................................. 12 
3.6 CONSULTATION .................................................................................... 13 
PART D JUSTIFICATION .................................................................................... 15 
PART E LEGISLATIVE AND POLICY FRAMEWORK ............................................. 18 
5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION 
ACT 1999 .............................................................................................. 18 
5.2 A METROPOLIS OF THREE CITIES – GREATER SYDNEY REGION PLAN 18 
5.3 NORTH DISTRICT PLAN ....................................................................... 20 
5.4 ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING AND ASSESSMENT ACT 1979................ 22 
5.5 ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING AND ASSESSMENT REGULATION 2000 22 
5.6 PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACT 1979 ........... 22 
5.7 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION ACT 2016 .......................................... 22 
5.8 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY (STATE AND REGIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT) 2011 ........................................................................... 23 
5.9 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY (INFRASTRUCTURE) 2007
.............................................................................................................. 23 
5.10 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY NO 19 – BUSHLAND IN 
URBAN AREAS ...................................................................................... 23 
5.11 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY NO. 33 – HAZARDOUS 
AND OFFENSIVE DEVELOPMENT .......................................................... 24 
5.12 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY NO. 55 – REMEDIATION 
OF LAND ............................................................................................... 24 
5.13 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY (COASTAL MANAGEMENT) 
2018 ..................................................................................................... 24 
5.14 SYDNEY REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PLAN (SYDNEY HARBOUR 
CATCHMENT) 2005 ............................................................................... 25 
5.15 LANE COVE LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL PLAN 2009 ................................ 27 
5.16 DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING INSTRUMENTS .......................... 32 
5.17 LANE COVE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN 2009 ............................... 32 
5.18 LANE COVE DEVELOPMENT CONTRIBUTIONS PLANS .......................... 38 
PART F ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ........................................................... 39 
PART G CONCLUSION ........................................................................................ 43 
 
Figures 
 
Figure 1 Land Zoning Applicable to the Subject Site under Lane Cove Local Environmental 
Plan 2009 (Source: NSW Legislation, 2020) ........................................................................ 6 
Figure 2 Site Context and Surrounding Area (Source: Nearmaps, 2020) ............................... 7 
Figure 3 Existing Site Context and Surrounding Area (Source: SIX Maps, 2020) .................... 8 
Figure 4: Proposed Preliminary Site Plan (Source: Greenbox, 2021) ................................... 14 
Figure 5 Metropolis of 3 Cities A Vision to 2056 (Source: Greater Sydney Commission, 2018)
...................................................................................................................................... 20 
Figure 6 North District Plan Structure Plan (Source: Greater Sydney Region Plan, 2018) ...... 21 
[[page 4]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
 
 
Figure 7 Subject Site in Proximity to Identified Coastal Wetlands Areas (Source: NSW DPIE, 
2020) ............................................................................................................................. 25 
Figure 8 Foreshores and Waterways Area Map (Source: NSW DPIE, 2020) ......................... 26 
Figure 9 Sydney Harbour Catchment SREP Zoning Map (Source: NSW DPIE, 2020) ............. 27 
Figure 10 Maximum Building Height Applicable to the Subject Site and Surrounding Area 
under Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 (Source: NSW Legislation, 2020) .............. 30 
Figure 11 Maximum Floor Space Ratio Applicable to the Subject Site and Surrounding Area 
under Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 (Source: NSW Legislation, 2020) .............. 31 
 
Tables  
 
Table 1: Site Identification ................................................................................................. 5 
Table 2: Existing Site Particulars ........................................................................................ 8 
Table 3: Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 (LCLEP2009) – General LEP Clauses ..... 28 
Table 4: Lane Cove Development Control Plan 2009 (LCDCP2009) – Controls ..................... 32 
Table 5: LCLEP2009 and LCDCP2009 Compliance Table .................................................... 37 
 
Appendices 
 
Appendix 1 Preliminary Architectural Plans 
Appendix 2 Preliminary Cost Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 5]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
4 
 
PART A PRELIMINARY 
 
1.1 INTRODUCTION 
 
This Scoping Report has been prepared by Willowtree Planning Pty Ltd (Willowtree Planning) on behalf 
of ARUP and is submitted to the NSW Department of Planning, Industry and Environment (DPIE) in 
support of a formal request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements (SEARs).  
The Proponent is proposing to construct and operate a Data Centre on the Subject Site – 706 Mowbray 
Road West, Lane Cove North.  
The Site is located within the Lane Cove Local Government Area (LGA) and is zoned IN2 Light Industrial 
under the provisions of Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 (LCLEP2009). Development for the 
purposes of a Data Centre is permissible with consent within the IN2 Light Industrial zone pursuant to 
the provisions outlined within Part 3, Division 3, Clause 27 of State Environmental Planning Policy 
(Infrastructure) 2007 (ISEPP).  
 
Additionally, the Proposed Development satisfies the definition of State Significant Development (SSD) 
pursuant to Schedule 1, Part 25 of State Environmental Planning Policy (State and Regional 
Development) 2011 (SRD SEPP) as the Capital Investment Value (CIV) exceeds more than $50 Million.  
 
This Scoping Report provides a brief overview of the Proposed Development and the relevant planning 
framework that applies to enable the issuance of the SEARs, which will guide the preparation of a formal 
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for future development of the land.  
 
Environmental considerations relevant to the Proposed Development have been identified pertaining to 
the following parameters: 
 
▪ Soil and Water; 
▪ Noise and Vibration;  
▪ Air Quality;  
▪ Biodiversity; 
▪ Waste; 
▪ Traffic and Transport;  
▪ Hazards and Risks;  
▪ Energy Efficiency; 
▪ Heritage, including Aboriginal Cultural Heritage and Non-Aboriginal (European) Heritage; 
▪ Visual Amenity and Site Design; 
▪ Infrastructure and Services; 
▪ Social Impacts; and,  
▪ Economic Impacts. 
 
The Proposed Development would promote the enhanced development of the  Sydney Metropolitan 
Region, ultimately providing for employment opportunities and an advanced data storage facility, via 
means of a Data Centre to support the growth and development of IT infrastructure across the State in 
close proximity to the Sydney CBD.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 6]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
5 
 
PART B SITE ANALYSIS   
 
2.1 SITE LOCATION & EXISTING CHARACTERISTICS  
 
The identified portion of land, that is the subject of this Scoping Report is legally defined as 706 Mowbray 
Road, Lane Cove North. The Subject Site comprises one (1) allotment as described in Table 1 below.  
 
Table 1: Site Identification  
Street Address Legal Description 
706 Mowbray Road, Lane Cove North Lot 10 DP 1179953 
 
The entire Site comprises a total area of approximately 1.757 hectares (ha) and is subject to the  
applicable provisions outlined within LCLEP2009. Access to the Site is currently obtained via Mowbray 
Road West along the northern boundary of the Subject Site, which contains proposed entry and exit 
points along the street interface, as well as being acc ompanied by turning loops within the identified 
land portion that would control traffic volumes accordingly.  
 
The Site is situated approximately 9.24 km northwest of the Sydney CBD and 12.81 km east of 
Parramatta. It is within close proximity to transport  infrastructure routes (predominantly the bus 
network), as well as sharing direct links with the wider regional road network, including Epping Road 
and the M2 Motorway. All of which provide enhanced connectivity to the Subject Site and immediate 
vicinity, as well as the wider locality. Additionally, the Subject Site is located within close proximity to 
active transport links, such as bicycle routes, providing an additional mode of accessible transport 
available to the Subject Site.  
 
The Site’s historical c ontext is best described through its current light industrial setting, adjoining a 
densely vegetated environmental conservation area to the south, with the Lane Cove Tunnel 
infrastructure asset traversing the Site underground. Land surrounding the Site comprises the following 
land use zoning, including:  
 
▪ IN2 Light Industrial;  
▪ E2 Environmental Conservation;  
▪ SP2 Infrastructure; 
▪ RE1 Public Recreation;  
▪ R2 Low Density Residential; and 
▪ R3 Medium Density Residential.  
 
The nearest sensitive land use is within the E2 Environmental Conservation zone, located to the south 
and west of the Subject Site containing bushfire prone land, and vegetative characteristics. Accordingly, 
mitigation and protection measures would be required as part of the future development pr oposed for 
the purposes of a Data Centre, in order to preserve the natural and ecological amenity of the Subject 
Site and surrounding area . It is noted, that there are residential receivers on the northern side of 
Mowbray Road West, which will require cons ideration with respect to acoustic and visual amenity as 
part of the overall design and operational outcomes as a result of the Proposal.  
 
As mentioned above, the Lane Cove Tunnel infrastructure asset traverses the Site underground whereby 
consultation with Transurban has begun in relation to expectations and requirements as a result of the 
Proposal. 
 
The Site is subject to the provisions outlined within LCLEP2009, which is the primary Environmental 
Planning Instrument (EPI) and categorises the Site within the IN2 Light Industrial zone, as displayed in 
Figure 1 below. The Site and surrounding context are illustrated in Figures 2 & 3 below. 
 
[[page 7]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
6 
 
 
Figure 1 Land Zoning Applicable to the Subject Site under Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 (Source: NSW Legislation, 2020)  
 

[[page 8]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
7 
 
 
Figure 2 Site Context and Surrounding Area (Source: Nearmaps, 2020) 
 

[[page 9]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
8 
 
 
Figure 3 Existing Site Context and Surrounding Area (Source: SIX Maps, 2020) 
 
The existing development particulars of the Subject Site are outlined in Table 2 as follows:  
 
Table 2: Existing Site Particulars  
Site Details 
Total Site Area 1.757 ha 
 
2.2 LOCAL AND REGIONAL CONTEXT 
 
The Subject Site is located in the suburb of Lane Cove North, which forms part of the wider 
Lane Cove LGA.  
 
The immediate Site context exhibits an industrial character, being developed as part of a multi-
tenanted industrial development and is surrounded by similar industrial developments to the 
east and west of the Site. Other land uses in the vicinity of the Site include: 
 
▪ North – residential typologies comprising a mixture of Low Density Residential (north 
and north east) and Medium Density Residential (northwest) are in close proximity to 
the Subject Site, which would afford views towards the Proposed Development. 
▪ South – comprises an environmentally sensitive area (including the southwest), being 
zoned E2 Environmental Conservation, for which the Proposed Development will duly 

[[page 10]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
9 
 
consider when assessing the potenti al environmental impacts as a result of the 
Proposed Development on the Subject Site and adjoining sites.  
▪ East & West – comprises existing light industrial developments (including an existing 
child care centre to the west) , which would provide a transitio nal and sequential built 
form outcome in accordance with the Proposal.  
 
LCLEP2009 remains the primary EPI applicable to the Subject Site. It is noted, that the 
surrounding regional road network is located in close proximity to the Subject Site, which 
includes Epping Road and the M2 Motorway, providing enhanced connectivity to the Sydney 
CBD and the wider Sydney Metropolitan Region. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 11]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
10 
 
PART C PROJECT SUMMARY  
 
3.1 AIMS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT 
 
The subject Proposal seeks Development Consent for the construction and operational use of 
a proposed Data Centre. The following objectives have been identified as forming the basis of 
the Proposed Development, as well as being consistent with the aims set out within LCLEP2009, 
including:  
 
▪ Design the Site to achieve a viable economic return; 
▪ Ensure minimal environmental and amenity impact;  
▪ Ensure ongoing compliance with all operational legislative requirements;  
▪ Provide for an employment-generating land use; and 
▪ Ensure development is compatible with surrounding development and both the local 
and regional context.  
 
The Site and proposed design are considered to meet the objectives of the Project, as it allows 
for development on a land portion that would be suitably located; and is zoned accordingly for 
such permissible industrial-related purposes.  
 
A preliminary Site Plan is illustrated below for reference ( refer to Figure 5 below) and the 
Preliminary Architectural Plans are located in Appendix 1 of this Scoping Report.  
 
3.2 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT  
 
Consent is sought for the construction and operational use of a Data Centre, to achieve optimal 
efficiency outcomes in line with best practice  to cater for emerging and evolving data storage 
requirements throughout the Sydney CBD and wider Sydney Metropolitan Region . The 
Proposed Development is demonstrated in Figure 5 below, whilst Appendix 1 of this Scoping 
Report contains the detailed Preliminary Architectural P lans for the Proposed Development. 
These plans also demonstrate an indicative layout of the mechanical plant  (generators and 
substations) required to facilitate the proposed Data Centre. The overall scope of the Proposed 
Development is outlined as follows within Sections 3.2.1-3.2.7:  
 
3.2.1 Demolition of Existing Light Industrial Building 
 
The Subject Site contains a Light Industrial building, for which consent for demolition of the 
existing building would be required to facilitate the earthworks, infrastructure works and future 
construction of the proposed Data Centre.  
 
3.2.2 Data Centre Building 
 
The proposed Data Centre would operate on a 24/7 basis over six (6)  levels (including a 
basement level), comprising 14 data halls, 16 electrical substations, one (1) diesel fuel storage 
tanks, plant and equipment as shown on the Preliminary Architectural Plans prepared by 
Greenbox Architecture as shown in Appendix 1 of this Scoping Report. 
 
The Data Centre would be constructed over a single construction phase, which would be based 
on the demand for data storage and racking requirements, which would exhibit a built form 
outcome, resulting in a maximum building height of approximately 38 m, with approximately 
24,689 m2 of Gross Floor Area (GFA) across the Site.  
 
From an operational standpoint (as an owner / operator / landlord), the future end user 
provides a similar service to its tenants as any commercial landlord would. Notwithstanding, 
the point of difference is, that the tenants of the facilities are focused on the housing and 
delivery of cloud-based storage to service the global market, particularly clients located within 
[[page 12]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
11 
 
the CBD. Further operational details of the proposed Data Centre are summarised in Section 
4.3 below.  
 
3.2.3 Electrical Substations and Diesel Fuel Storage 
 
The facility will have a total of 16 no substations, with 2 no. step down transformers from 132 
to 11kV on the ground floor and 14uilding distribution transformers located on gantries,  with 
one per data hall and 1no diesel fuel storage area, comprising of multiple belly tanks sized to 
meet the requirements of AS1940 . Based on the Preliminary Architectural Plans prepared by 
Greenbox, it is anticipated that there would be approximately 1,800 tonnes (or 1,950 kL) of 
diesel fuel stored on-site. 
 
A Dangerous Goods Report will be prepared to assess any potential requirements for an 
Environmental Protection Licence (EPL) required for the proposal pertaining to diesel fuel 
storage. 
 
3.2.4 Office 
 
The admin and support blocks contain key program elements such as the Facility Operations 
Centre (FOC), Security Operations Cent re (SOC), Loading Dock, Staging, Storage and Open 
Office. The office components comprise approximately 2,837 m2 of GFA. 
 
The Open Office is a touch down office space for single vendor use while supporting the 
proposed Data Centre. The office space includes non-dedicated, open workstations for use by 
operations personnel during peak deployments periods. The Security Operations Centre (SOC) 
serves as the access control point for the facility and is located directly adjacent to the Lobby 
so that personnel access can be monitored visually by security staff. Facilities Operations Centre 
(FOC) is a dedicated enclosed space for facilities m onitoring, with operator consoles for 
Facilities Operations. 
 
3.2.5 Access and Servicing 
 
Access to the Site would be facilitated by Mowbray Road West, which shares direct links to 
Epping Road. Servicing to the Site would be undertaken via augmentation of the ex isting 
infrastructure at the Subject Site, with any additional infrastructure requirements (primarily 
electricity) being investigated under the subject Proposal concerning the proposed Data Centre 
pertaining to provisions for a substation on the Site. 
 
Additionally, the Proposal includes provisions for internal access roads providing safe ingress 
and egress throughout the Site, including appropriate directional access and vehicular 
movement across the Site. This will also satisfy the relevant setback and Asset Protection Zone 
(APZ) requirements required to be implemented across the Site.  
 
3.2.6 Landscaping 
 
A carefully selected landscape setting will be chosen  for the Site, comprising a mix of native 
and endemic plant species, shrubs, trees and grasses which will help to improve the aesthetic 
for workers and visitors, as well as exhibit an appropriate landscaping treatment for motorists 
traversing Mowbray Road West, as well as significantly reduce the potential visual amenity 
impacts experienced by nearby residential typologies to the north of the Site. Landscaping will 
aid the proposal by virtue of landscape screening ultimately improving the visual amenity of 
the Site. Accordingly, 3,507 m2 of landscaping has been proposed for the Site. 
 
 
 
 
[[page 13]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
12 
 
3.2.7 Car Parking 
 
Car parking has been provided across the Site to facilitate both the construction and operational 
phases of the Proposed Development. Parking has been provided generally in accordance with 
the LCDCP2009 controls pertaining to parking; however, it should be  noted that a merit 
assessment will be applied to the Site, given the unique operational output requirements of a 
Data Centre, which typically results in a reduced car parking requirement over a site compared 
to any other industrial development . Accordingly, 50 car parking spaces have been provided 
for the Proposed Development  (including one (1)  accessible space) . A Traffic and Parking 
Impact Assessment will be prepared as part of the Proposed Development to justify proposed  
car parking across the Site.  
 
3.2.8 Employment Generation 
 
The Proposal would positively impact on the social and economic conditions of the Lane Cove 
LGA and would form an extension of employment generation potential exhibited throughout 
the wider Lane Cove West Business Park , which is envisaged for employment-generation and 
economic growth and prosperity , as well as being zoned for industrial -related purposes . 
Construction jobs are expected to be in the order of approximately 300, whilst operational jobs 
would be expected to exceed approximately 50 future staff (which includes maintenance 
contractors). 
 
3.3 DATA CENTRE OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES  
 
Once the Proposed Development is fully commissioned and handed over to the operations 
team, staff and contractors will be responsible for managing the ongoing health and safety of 
the Site. This includes the implementation and management of a thorough maintenance 
program. Established robust tools and systems and well -documented procedures will ensure 
the Site remains compliant with State and Local government regulations and best in class global 
standards for Data Centre operations.  
 
The main facets of the Data Centre operations are outlined as follows:  
 
▪ Minimising unplanned outages and critical equipment failures through well 
documented management processes and procedures; 
▪ Reducing operating risks including those related to security; and 
▪ Providing continuous customer support on a 24x7x365 basis. 
 
3.4 STAGING OF DEVELOPMENT  
 
The approval strategy sought, seeks to obtain Development Consent to complete the 
construction works over several construction phases ; however, any such staging does not 
constitute staged development as defined under Section 4.22 of the Environmental Planning 
and Assessment Act 1979 (EP&A Act). 
 
The proposed stages will be comp leted as demand for data storage and distribution of cloud-
based data storage and services is required.  
 
3.5 CAPITAL INVESTMENT VALUE 
 
While costs have not yet been finalised, the CIV of this Project is expected to be approximately 
$129 Million. The costs will be finalised once the final design is confirmed. 
 
As this exceeds the $ 50 Million threshold under Schedule 1, Part 25 of the SRD SEPP, the 
Proposed Development is considered SSD.  
 
[[page 14]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
13 
 
A Preliminary Cost Report is attached to verify the CIV (refer to Appendix 2). 
 
3.6 CONSULTATION  
 
Consultation is currently being undertaken with the following stakeholders: 
 
▪ Lane Cove Council; 
▪ Environment Protection Authority;  
▪ Ausgrid;   
▪ Transport for NSW;  
▪ Department of Industry – Crown Lands and Water;  
▪ Department of Primary Industries – Fisheries;  
▪ NSW DPIE – Environment, Energy and Science (EES) Group;  
▪ NSW DPIE – Hazards Team; 
▪ SafeWork NSW; 
▪ Fire and Rescue NSW;   
▪ Rural Fire Service;  
▪ Sydney Water;  
▪ Willoughby Council; 
▪ Transurban; 
▪ Surrounding local residents and stakeholders; and  
▪ Any other public transport, utilities or community service providers.  
 
Consultation with relevant stake holders will be undertaken whilst preparing a detailed 
Environmental Impact Statement in keeping with the Department's Major Project Co mmunity 
Consultation Guidelines. 
 
It is noted, that the Proponent met with both the NSW DPIE and Lane Cove Council as part of 
a Pre-Scoping Meeting on 14 December 2020, where t he Design Team presented its current 
preliminary design documentation, as well as both the NSW DPIE and Lane Cove Council 
flagging key issues to consider as part of the Project.  
 
Furthermore, Australian Public Affairs have been engaged by the Proponent to  facilitate 
ongoing community and stakeholder engagement as part of the Proposed Development’s 
overall community and stakeholder engagement participation strategy, which is due to 
commence in February 2021. Australian Public Affairs aim to support a positi ve planning 
outcome by:  
 
▪ Informing and guiding the best quality community outcomes within the commercial 
bounds of the clients requirements for the site.  
 
▪ Protecting and enhancing the clients reputation in the community.   
 
▪ Actively managing the risk of objections impacting the planning approval outcomes.   
 
▪ Ensuring the community has access to balanced information about the project.   
 
▪ Facilitating documentable input from the community to inform the SSDA.   
 
▪ Building trust and constructive dialogue with key local stakeholders. 
 
[[page 15]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
14 
 
 
Figure 4: Proposed Preliminary Site Plan (Source: Greenbox, 2021)

[[page 16]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
15 
 
PART D JUSTIFICATION   
 
4.1 PROJECT NEED 
 
Accordingly, the way data and records are stored is considered to be  continually evolving. The storage 
of cloud and electronic data is now a fundamental piece of infrastructure and services for both business 
and consumer transactions. Data Centres are considered to be critical infrastructure, that not only 
provide employment-generating opportunities within the Information, Communication and Technology 
(ICT) sector, but also support the operation of business to business and business to consumer services.  
 
The Proposed Development would assist in providing new employment opportunities and promote 
further industry diversification (i.e. ICT sector). Accordingly, this Proposal would not alter the quantity 
or configuration of land currently zoned for  industrial-related uses pursuant to the IN2 Light Industrial 
zone under LCLEP2009.   
  
The Proposed Development, for the purposes of a Data Centre is considered consistent with the strategic 
direction of A Metropolis of Three Cities  and the North District Plan  (Greater Sydney Commission ). 
Additionally, the Proposed Development will further contribute to the growth and knowledge of 
professional service jobs within the North District; hence, contributing to the North District’s economic 
growth, within the wider Lane Cove LGA.   
  
Furthermore, the Proposed Development could support the retention and maintenance of existing 
industrial land stocks and employment objectives, whilst promoting industry diversification (and 
generating new employment sources); and could generate more employment through the relevant 
planning, construction and maintenance stages. 
 
Additionally, the Proposed Development at the Subject Site would generate a range of community need 
drivers, in particular the following:  
 
▪ Reduced travel distances, leading to savings in time and fuel for local working residents, due to 
much better access to the Site, as opposed to other dense employment areas at the local level. 
It is noted, that a reduction in travel times and distances generates related benefits, including 
reduced vehicle wear and tear, reduced fuel costs, reduced pollution, reduced traffic congestion, 
reduced risks of car accidents and more time which can be spent either working, socialising or 
undertaking other activities;  
▪ New employment opportunities from other industries, such as ICT businesses to operate within 
the Lane Cove LGA; and  
▪ Providing jobs near people’s homes and consequent economic multiplier impacts, which will 
boost the local economy. 
 
4.2 CONSIDERATION OF ALTERNATIVES 
 
The purpose of the Proposed Development is to contribute towards the intended industrial character 
and nature of the IN2 Light Industrial zone; and provide a Data Centre, which provides secure, reliable 
and scalable solutions for cloud, content and large e nterprise customers to house their high rapidly 
growing volumes of data and information. The Proposed Development seeks to ensure it:  
 
▪ Is compatible with surrounding development and the local context;   
▪ Would provide increased operational efficiencies for storage and distribution of data;   
▪ Would result in minimal impact on the environment; and  
▪ Would allow for the implementation of suitable mitigation measures, where required. 
 
Overall, the scale of the Proposed Development is considered suitable, and the built form proposed 
would completely enhance and renew an underutilised land portion completely, into a modernised, 
State-of-the-Art Data Centre, which will be completely consis tent with surrounding industrial -related 
uses in close proximity to the Site. The Site design and layout of the built form proposed, seeks to 
[[page 17]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
16 
 
maintain consistency with the zone objectives under LCLEP2009 and enhance the underlying industrial 
character inte nded for the identified land portion, which is zoned for such permissible land uses. 
Furthermore, this would be achieved by the resultant built form that would reinforce the nature of the 
land use and is sensitive to the surrounding environment.  
 
The options considered and subsequently dismissed, in arriving to the current proposal with regard to 
the Proposed Development included:  
 
(a) ‘Do Nothing’ Scenario 
 
This option was dismissed as the objectives of the Project would not be met, including the objective of 
facilitating an employment-generating development. If the Proposed Development was not to proceed, 
the Site would continue to  remain underutilised and underrealised , or be developed for another 
industrial-related development.  
 
(b) Development on an Alternative Site 
 
Consideration was given to carrying out development on alternate sites; however, these were dismissed 
as the Site resulted in the most beneficial outcomes for the Proposed Development as:  
 
▪ It is located subject to the provisions of the IN2 Light Industrial zone pursuant to the provisions 
of LCLEP2009, which seeks to provide employment-generating land uses;  
▪ The Site is suitably located with respect to sensitive land activities , including res idential 
development on the northern interface of Mowbray Road West;  
▪ All potential environmental impacts concerning the Proposed Development are able to  be 
suitably mitigated within the Site;  
▪ The proximity to the regional road network provides accessibility and linkages to the broader 
Sydney Metropolitan Region and regional areas of NSW;  
▪ The Proposed Development demonstrates the capability for continued employment-generating 
opportunities, during both the construction and operational (including maintenance) phases;  
▪ Sufficient separation is maintained towards the interfaces of surrounding industrial zoned land 
and existing industrial development in close proximity to the Subject Site;  
▪ The Proposed Development has not been identified as containing any items of Heritage 
significance, including Aboriginal Cultural Heritage and State or Local Heritage items, that 
require further consideration; and,  
▪ The Proposed Development could be developed with appropriate visual amenity achieved given 
its surrounding context.  
 
(c) Different Site Configuration  
 
The configuration of the Proposed Development was chosen based on the Site’s topography; street 
access; existing mature and proposed vegetation / landscaping; as well as the need to respond to the 
character of the surrounding IN2 Light Industrial zone. It is noted, that a different site configuration 
would not have been able to respond to the abovementioned site opportunities and constraints. This 
option was therefore not considered appropriate. 
 
Notwithstanding, the Proposed Development is justified on the  basis, that it is compatible with the 
locality in which it is proposed, resulting in positive social and economic benefits, whilst appropriately 
managing and mitigating any potential environmental impacts requiring consideration  across and 
surrounding the Site.  
 
4.3 PROPOSED DATA CENTRE 
 
From an operational perspective (as an owner / operator / landlo rd), the future end user  provides a 
similar service to its tenants as any commercial landlord would. Notwithstanding, the point of difference 
[[page 18]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
17 
 
is, that the tenants of the facilities are focused on the housing and delivery of cloud -based internet to 
service the global market. 
 
The Data Centre proposed, commits to maintaining high levels of reliability through the provision of the 
Site’s infrastructure, ultimately supporting the tenant’s environment. This is accomplished through 
industry leading redundancy of mechanical cooling a nd power systems (including emergency backup 
power generators) serving the Data Centre along with the necessary and vital telecommunications links 
required for the Site to carry out an efficient and effective operation.   
  
It is important to note, that in addition to deploying reliable infrastructure in secure facilities, the future 
end user invests in high performing 24x7 operational teams, whose sole focus is to ensure that the Site 
is never at risk. 
 
From a locational perspective, the Subject Site was c hosen as it would be able to accommodate an 
unconstrained platform and scale of development proposed. Accordingly, the Site’s locality is considered 
satisfactory from a strategic standpoint, for which the Proposal responds to the industrial character 
intended for the Site and immediate locality; and the limited environmental constraints, which make the 
Site suitable for development, for the purposes of a Data Centre. Additionally, the Site’s locality is 
reinforced by its close proximity to nearby regional r oad networks, such as Epping Road and the M2  
Motorway as well as available bus networks in close proximity to the Site  (throughout Mowbray Road 
and Epping Road), which are considered highly beneficial for the overall operations of the Proposal.  
 
It is noted, that if the Proposed Development did not proceed, the Site would not provide employment 
opportunities for an employment sector. Additionally, it would not provide local employment 
opportunities, including achieving the ’30-minute City’ (as outlined in the Regional and District Plans) or 
generate construction and operational (including maintenance) jobs. 
 
In light of the above information, which promotes a n industrial-related development, for the purposes 
of a Data Centre at 706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) , this would allow 
for the delivery of more employment space and promotes the supply and competitiveness of the existing 
employment land floorspace within the immediate locality, for which is surrounded by existing industrial 
development.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 19]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
18 
 
PART E LEGISLATIVE AND POLICY FRAMEWORK 
 
The following current and draft Commonwealth, State, Regional and Local planning controls and policies 
have been considered in the preparation of this Report: 
 
Commonwealth Planning Context 
 
▪ Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 
 
State & Regional Planning Context 
 
▪ A Metropolis of Three Cities – Greater Sydney Region Plan 
▪ North District Plan 
▪ Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 
▪ Environmental Planning & Assessment Regulation 2000 
▪ Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1997 
▪ Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (State and Regional Development) 2011 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Infrastructure) 2007 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy No 19 – Bushland in Urban Areas 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy No 33 – Hazardous and Offensive Development 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy No 55 – Remediation of Land 
▪ State Environmental Planning Policy (Coastal Management) 2018 
▪ Sydney Regional Environmental Plan (Sydney Harbour Catchment) 2005 
 
Local Planning Context 
 
▪ Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 
▪ Lane Cove Development Control Plan 2009 
 
This planning framework is considered in detail in the following sections. 
 
5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION ACT 1999 
 
Under the Commonwealth Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act), 
any action (which includes a development, project or activity) that is considered likely to have a 
significant impact on Matters of National Environmental Significance (MNES) (including nationally 
threatened ecological com munities and species and listed migratory species) must be referred to the 
Commonwealth Minister for the Environment. The purpose of the referral is to allow a decision to be 
made about whether an action requires approval on a Commonwealth level. If an act ion is considered 
likely to have significant impact on MNES, it is declared a “controlled action” and formal Commonwealth 
approval is required. 
 
Based on preliminary investigations carried out, the proposal does not warrant referral to the 
Commonwealth Minister for Environment.  
 
5.2 A METROPOLIS OF THREE CITIES – GREATER SYDNEY REGION PLAN 
 
A Metropolis of Three Cities – Greater Sydney Region Plan (Greater Sydney Commission, 2018) divides 
the Sydney Region into three (3) Cities, with a vision of growth until 2056 (refer to Figure 5 below). 
The Plan aims to anticipate the housing and employment needs of a growing and vastly changing 
population. The overall vision pursues an objective of transforming ‘Greater Sydney’ into a Metropolis 
of Three Cities, including:  
  
▪ The Western Parkland City;  
▪ The Central River City; and,   
[[page 20]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
19 
 
▪ The Eastern Harbour City. 
 
The division into three (3) cities puts workers and the wider community closer to an array of 
characteristics such as, intensive jobs, ‘city -scale’ infrastructure & services, entertainment and cultural 
facilities. By managing and retaining industrial land close to city centres and transport, this will ensur e 
critical and essential services are readily available to support local businesses and community members 
and residents. Once constructed and operational, the Subject Site would achieve economic growth and 
prosperity, as well as encourage employment -generating opportunities within an area zoned for such 
permissible purposes, that is considered relatively close in conjunction to residential communities, 
providing an ease of commute. The Proposed Development across the Site considers the employment-
generating outcomes that can be achieved for the immediate and wider localities. 
 
The Proposed Development at 706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North also contributes to the four 
(4) standardised elements communicated across for all three (3) cities, including:  
 
▪ Infrastructure and collaboration – once in operation, the Proposed Development of the Site for 
the purposes of a Data Centre, would provide cloud storage to available clients, allowing for 
more efficient operations on end to end business models;  
▪ Liveability – the Proposed Development encourages employment-generating opportunities and 
economic prosperity, which has positive influences on the wider locality;  
▪ Productivity – the Proposed Development is situated within the North District Plan (refer to 
Section 5.3 below); and,   
▪ Sustainability – the Proposed Development would not exhibit or emit any detrimental impacts 
to its wider ecological surroundings.   
 
In summary, the Subject Site contributes to the objectives set out in the A Metropolis of Three Cities – 
Greater Sydney Region Plan  by promoting minor environmental impact s and the further promotion of 
employment-generating opportunities to the wider locality and community, positioned within the Lane 
Cove LGA.   
 
[[page 21]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
20 
 
 
Figure 5 Metropolis of 3 Cities A Vision to 2056 (Source: Greater Sydney Commission, 2018) 
 
5.3 NORTH DISTRICT PLAN 
 
The North District Plan  covers the Lane Cove LGA. The Plan encourages a twenty -year plan to help 
encourage and establish goals set out in the A Metropolis of Three Cities – Greater Sydney Region Plan, 
mentioned above. The Plan is considered a ‘bridge’ between Regional and Local planning. 
 
The Subject Site – 706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North, is situated within the North District Plan, 
which falls within the Eastern Harbour City (refer to Figure 6 below).  
 

[[page 22]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
21 
 
 
Figure 6 North District Plan Structure Plan (Source: Greater Sydney Region Plan, 2018) 
 
The North District Plan reinforces the four (4) planning priorities of the GSC. The Plan establishes a 
number of priorities and actions to guide growth, development and change, relating to infrastructure & 
collaboration, liveability, productivity and sustainability.   
  
The Greater Sydney Commission’s mission statement further reinforces the Plan’s concentrated aims by 
outlining its main strategies, namely:   
  
▪ Enhancing the role of the Eastern Economic Corridor, including North Sydney as part of the 
Harbour CBD;  
▪ Supporting jobs growth in strategic centres, including health and education precincts and 
facilitating innovation;  
▪ Sustaining local centres to provide jobs, services and amenity;   
▪ Providing fast and efficient transport connections to achieve a 30-minute city;   
▪ Retaining and managing industrial and urban services land;  
▪ Creating and renewing great places while protecting heritage and local character and improving 
places for people;   
▪ Improving walking and safe cycling ways;  
▪ Enhancing foreshore access to Sydney Harbour and the District’s waterways;  
▪ Enhancing the quality and improving access to open space, and increasing urban tree canopy;  
▪ Retaining the environmental, social and economic values of the Metropolitan Rural Areas; and  
▪ Protecting and enhancing the District’s unique natural assets including waterways, coastlines 
and bushland. 
 
The Proposed Development, would contribute to the objectives set out in the North District Plan (of 
which the Site forms a part), by promoting a greater range of land uses of benefit to the community, 

[[page 23]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
22 
 
including the Proposed Development ( Data Centre ) and other associated land uses; facilitating the 
provision of greater a nd improved infrastructure; and promoting additional employment -generating 
opportunities, to the wider locality and community closer to home, whilst supporting economically and 
environmentally-sustainable  development. These aims are specifically relevant to the Proposed 
Development. 
 
5.4 ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING AND ASSESSMENT ACT 1979 
 
The EP&A Act is the overarching governing statute for all development in NSW and pursuant to Section 
4.36(2) provides that:  
 
“A State environmental planning policy may declare any development, or any class or 
description of development, to be State significant development.” 
 
The Proposed Development has been identified as State Significant Development under the SRD SEPP.  
 
5.5 ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING AND ASSESSMENT REGULATION 2000  
 
Section 4(1) of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000 (EP&A Regulation) states 
that: 
 
“Development described in Part 1 of Schedule 3 is declared to be designated development for 
the purposes of the Act unless it is declared not to be designated development by a provision 
of Part 2 or 3 of that Schedule.” 
 
The Proposal being for a Data Centre does not trigger the Designated Development thresholds.  
 
5.6 PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS ACT 1979 
 
Schedule 1 of the Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1979 (POEO Act) contains a core list of 
activities that require a licence before they may be undertaken or carried out. The definition of an 
‘activity’ for the purposes of the POEO Act is: 
 
“an industrial, agricultural or commercial activity or an activity of any other nature whatever 
(including the keeping of a substance or an animal).” 
 
The Proposed Development will include review of the relevant thresholds under Schedule 1 of the POEO 
Act with respect to Dangerous Goods, including provisions for Diesel Fuel storage  and lithium ion 
batteries to be stored on-site within the future data storage racking, which may trigger the requirement 
for an Environmental Protection Licence (EPL). 
 
5.7 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION ACT 2016  
 
The Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 (BC Act) is the key piece of legislation in NSW relating to the 
protection and management of biodiversity and threatened species. The purpose of the BC Act is to 
maintain a healthy, productive and resilient environment for the greatest well-being of the community, 
now and into the future, consistent with the principles of ecologically sustainable development. The BC 
Act is supported by a number of regulations, including the Biodiversity Conservation Regulation 2017  
(BC Regulation).  
 
The BC Act requires consideration of whether a development or an activity is likely to significantly affect 
threatened species. The Proposed Development will include a Biodiversity Development Assessment 
Report (BDAR) prepared in accordance with the relevant Biodiversity Assessm ent Methodology (BAM) 
requirements prescribed pursuant to the BC Act and BC Regulations pertaining to the removal of native 
vegetation.  
[[page 24]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
23 
 
5.8 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY (STATE AND REGIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT) 2011 
 
Proposed developments involving activities that are listed in Schedule 1 of the SRD SEPP are identified 
as being State Significant Development (SSD). Schedule 1, Clause 25 of the SRD SEPP includes 
provisions for developments comprising Data Centres to be undertaken as SSD. Clause 25 states:  
 
 “25 Data Storage 
 
Development for the purpose of storage premises used for the storage of data and related  
information technology hardware that has a capital investment value of more than $50 million 
and includes development that is the subject of the following development applications—  
(a) development application SSD-9741 in respect of the Lane Cove West Data Centre at 1 Sirius 
Road, Lane Cove West,  
(b) development application SSD -10330 in respect of the Roberts Road Data C entre at 17 
Roberts Road, Eastern Creek.” 
 
The CIV of the entire project is in excess of $ 50 Million (~$129 Million), thus the SSD provisions apply 
to the Proposal.  
 
5.9 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY (INFRASTRUCTURE) 2007  
 
State Environmental Planning Policy (Infrastructure) 2007 (ISEPP) includes provisions to achieve 
permissibility for the development of certain activities for a range of infrastructure types. The ISEPP 
indicates whether an activity is permissible with or without consent on what land the activity is 
permissible.  
 
In accordance with the meaning bestowed under the ISEPP, a Dat a Centre is defined as “development 
for the purposes of storage premises used for the storage of data and related information technology 
hardware”. Furthermore, it is noted, that the IN2 Light Industrial zone is identified as a Prescribed Zone 
pursuant to Part 3, Division 3, Clause 27(2) of the ISEPP.  
 
Furthermore, the ISEPP repeals the former State Environmental Planning Policy No 11 – Traffic 
Generating Development and, pursuant to Clause 104, provides for certain proposals, known as Traffic 
Generating Development, to be referred to NSW Roads and Maritime Services (RMS) for concurrence.  
 
Schedule 3 lists the types of development that are defined as Traffic Generating Development. The 
referral thresholds for ‘Industry’ are:  
 
▪ 20,000 m2 in area with site access to any road; or, 
▪ 5,000 m2 in area where the site has access to a classified road or to a road that connects to a 
classified road (if access is within 90 metres of connection, measured along the alignment of 
the connecting road).  
 
The Subject Site attains an area greater than 20,000 m2. Therefore, any such future development would 
require referral to the NSW RMS (now TfNSW).  
 
5.10 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY NO 19 – BUSHLAND IN URBAN AREAS  
 
The Subject Site does not contain land zoned or r eserved for public open spaces purposes, rather has 
been designated for light industrial purposes, similar to the surrounding industrial character established 
along the southern interface of Mowbray Road, as well as forming an extension with respect to the  
wider Lane Cove West Business Park to the south of the Site, which serves an employment -generating 
function within the Lane Cove LGA. It is noted, that the northern boundary of the Subject Site is 
traversed by identified Bushland; therefore, the provision s of State Environmental Planning Policy No 
19 – Bushland in Urban Areas (SEPP 19) are relevant to the Proposed Development.  
[[page 25]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
24 
 
The implications of SEPP 19 will be considered within the future EIS to be prepared following the SEARs 
being issued, with respect to potential impacts on bushland, as well as any bushfire hazards to consider, 
which will be documented within the future BDAR and Bushfire Impact Assessment.  
 
5.11 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY NO. 33 – HAZARDOUS AND OFFENSIVE 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
To facilitate the operational use of the proposed Data Centre, there will be some diesel fuel stored on 
the Site for the back -up generators. However, there are no combustibles proposed to be stored, thus 
State Environmental Planning Policy No  33 - Hazardous and Offensive Development  (SEPP 33) is not 
triggered. Notwithstanding, a Preliminary Risk Screening report would be undertaken and prepared and 
included within the EIS. 
 
5.12 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY NO. 55 – REMEDIATION OF LAND 
 
Under the provisions of State Environmental Planning Policy No 55 – Remediation of Land (SEPP 55), 
where a Development Application (in this instance, SSD Application)  is made concerning land that is 
contaminated, the consent authority must not grant consent unless: 
 
(a) it has considered whether the land is contaminated, and 
(b) if the land is contaminated, it is satisfied that the land is suitable in its contaminated state 
(or will be suitable, after remediation) for the purpose for which the development is proposed 
to be carried out, and 
(c) if the land requires remediation to be made suitable for the purpose for which the 
development is proposed to be carried out, it is satisfied that the land will be remediated 
before the land is used for that purpose. 
 
Detailed environmental site investig ations will be undertaken to confirm the Site is suitable for the 
proposed land use in accordance with SEPP 55.  
 
5.13 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING POLICY (COASTAL MANAGEMENT) 2018  
 
The Site is not affected or identified as part of a Coastal Wetlands area. The aim of State Environmental 
Planning Policy (Coastal Management) 2018  (Coastal Management SEPP) is to promote an integrated 
and co-ordinated approach to land use planning in the coastal zone in a manner consistent with the 
objects of the Coastal Management Act 2016, including the management objectives for each coastal 
management area, by:   
  
(a) managing development in the coastal zone and protecting the environmental assets of the 
coast, and   
(b) establishing a framework for land use planning to guide decision -making in the coastal zone, 
and   
(c) mapping the 4 coastal management areas that comprise the NSW coastal zone for the purpose 
of the definitions in the Coastal Management Act 2016.  
  
Any future development proposed on the Subject Site should ensure that the following criterion are  
met, namely:   
  
▪ The biophysical, hydrological or ecological integrity of the adjacent coastal wetland or littoral 
rainforest; or  
▪ The quantity and quali ty of surface and ground water flows to and from the adjacent coastal 
wetland or littoral rainforest. 
 
The Site is not affected or identified as part of a Coastal Wetlands area; however, it is noted, that land 
further to the west and southwest of the Subje ct Site is mapped as containing Coastal Wetlands and 
includes Littoral Rainforests further to the south (refer to Figure 7 below). Notwithstanding, further  
[[page 26]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
25 
 
consideration with respect to the Coastal Management SEPP is not considered to be warranted in this 
respect.  
 
 
 
 
5.14 SYDNEY REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PLAN (SYDNEY HARBOUR CATCHMENT) 2005 
 
Sydney Regional Environmental Plan (Sydney Harbour Catchment) 2005 (Sydney Harbour Catchment 
SREP) applies to land within the Sydney Harbour Catchment. As shown in Figure 8 below, the rough 
location of the Site is identified within the Sydney Harbour Catchment, and specifically within the 
Foreshores and Waterways Area. 
 
Figure 7 Subject Site in Proximity to Identified Coastal Wetlands Areas (Source: NSW DPIE, 2020) 
[[page 27]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
26 
 
 
Figure 8 Foreshores and Waterways Area Map (Source: NSW DPIE, 2020) 
 
For the purpose of the Sydney Harbour Catchment SREP, land adjacent to the north and west Site 
boundary is zoned W2 Environmental Protection (refer to Figure 9 below).  
 

[[page 28]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
27 
 
 
Figure 9 Sydney Harbour Catchment SREP Zoning Map (Source: NSW DPIE, 2020) 
 
The objectives of the W2 zone are as follows:  
 
(a) to protect the natural and cultural values of waters in this zone,  
(b) to prevent damage or the possibility of longer term detrime ntal impacts to the natural and 
cultural values of waters in this zone and adjoining foreshores,  
(c) to give preference to enhancing and rehabilitating the natural and cultural values of waters in 
this zone and adjoining foreshores,  
(d) to provide for the long-term management of the natural and cultural values of waters in this 
zone and adjoining foreshores. 
 
It is noted, that the Subject Site is located adjacent (and not within) to the identified W2 zone; however, 
pursuant to Part 3 Division 2 of the SREP, matters to be taken into consideration by the consent authority 
before granting consent to development under Part 4 of the Act relate to:  
  
▪ Biodiversity, ecology and environment protection. 
▪ Public access to, and use of, foreshores and waterways. 
▪ Maintenance of a working harbor. 
▪ Interrelationship of waterway and foreshore uses. 
▪ Foreshore and waterways scenic quality. 
▪ Maintenance, protection and enhancement of views. 
▪ Boat storage facilities. 
 
The Proposal will not require concurrence with the Foreshores and Waterways Planning and 
Development Advisory Committee; however, the future EIS will consider the objectives above where 
required. 
 
5.15 LANE COVE LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL PLAN 2009 
 
LCLEP2009 is the principal EPI applicable to the Site. The Site is zoned as follows:  

[[page 29]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
28 
 
▪ IN2 Light Industrial 
 
Table 3 outlines the relevant planning controls applicable to the Site, as stated within LCLEP2009.  
 
Table 3: Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 (LCLEP2009) – General LEP Clauses 
Requirement Application to Subject Site  
Clause 2.3 – Zone 
Objectives and Land Use 
Table  
(2) The consent authority must have regard to the objectives for 
development in a zone when determining a development application in 
respect of land within the zone.  
IN2 Light Industrial Zone  
IN2 Light Industrial – 
Objectives of Zone 
▪ To provide a wide range of light industrial, warehouse and 
related land uses. 
▪ To encourage employment opportunities and to support the 
viability of centres. 
▪ To minimise any adverse effect of industry on other land uses. 
▪ To enable other land uses that provide facilities  or services to 
meet the day to day needs of workers in the area. 
▪ To support and protect industrial land for industrial uses. 
▪ To ensure that landscaping is a significant element in 
development viewed from the public domain and neighbouring 
properties. 
▪ To recognise the close proximity of this zone to adjoining 
residential areas and seek to mitigate potential conflict between 
industrial and residential uses. 
Permitted without Consent Nil 
Permitted with Consent Car parks; Centre -based child c are facilities; Community facilities; 
Depots; Food and drink premises; Garden centres; Hardware and 
building supplies; Industrial training facilities; Light industries; Medical 
centres; Neighbourhood shops; Oyster aquaculture; Places of public 
worship; Recreation areas; Recreation facilities (indoor); Respite day 
care centres; Roads; Self -storage units; Sex services premises; 
Signage; Tank -based aquaculture; Vehicle body repair workshops; 
Vehicle repair stations; Vehicle sales or hire premises; Warehouse or  
distribution centres. 
Prohibited  Pond-based aquaculture; Any other development not specified in item 
2 or 3. 
LEP Clauses 
Clause 4.1 – Minimum Lot 
Size 
The Site is not subject to a minimum lot size under LCLEP2009. 
Clause 4.3 – Height of 
Buildings  
The Site is subject to a maximum building height of approximately 18 
m pursuant to LCLEP2009 (refer to Figure 10 below). Accordingly, the 
Proposal includes provisions for a maximum height of approximately 38 
m, for which a variation would be sought pursuant to Clause 4.6 of the 
LCLEP2009. 
Clause 4.4 – Floor Space 
Ratio (FSR) 
The Site is subject to a maximum Floor Space Ratio (FSR) of 1.5:1 under 
Clause 4.4 of LCLEP2009 (refer to Figure 11 below). The Proposed 
Development would accrue a maximum FSR of approximately 1.4:1. 
Clause 4.6 – Exceptions to 
Development Standards 
A Clause 4.6 Variation would be required to be prepared in relation to 
Clause 4.3, which is required to be varied, with respect to the maximum 
building height (noting an estimated 38 m built form outcome proposed 
as part of the Proposal). 
Clause 5.1 – Relevant 
Acquisition Authority 
The Site adjoins Mowbray Road, which is zoned SP2 Infrastructure: 
Classified Road, for which it may be subject to future road widening at 
any given time in the future. Additionally, the Lane Cove Tunnel (M2 
Motorway) intersects the Site, for which consultation with Transport for 
NSW (TfNSW) and Transurban will be undertaken as part of the 
[[page 30]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
29 
 
Proposed Development to ascertain key considerations for developing 
the Site in close proximity to key infrastructure. 
Clause 5.10 – Heritage 
Conservation 
The Subject Site has not been identified as containing any Historic 
(European) Heritage and / or Aboriginal Cultural Heritage items of 
significance.  
Clause 5.11 – Bush Fire 
Hazard Reduction 
The Site is subject to bushfire prone land (Vegetation Buffer), for which 
the Proposed Development  would consider potential bushfire 
affectations on the Site.  
 
The Site adjoins an environmentally sensitive area to the south (zoned 
E2 Environmental Conservation), which is identified as Bushfire Prone 
Land (Vegetation Category 1 & 2), for which the Proposed Development 
will i mplement both Asset Protection Zones (APZs) and appropriate 
defendable space to manage and mitigate any potential bushfire 
hazards in accordance with Planning for Bushfire Protection 2019 (PBP). 
Clause 6.1 – Acid Sulfate 
Soils 
The Subject Site is not mapped as containing the potential for Acid 
Sulfate Soils on -site. Notwithstanding, geotechnical investigations and 
surveys for contamination on -site will include parameters to consider 
the presence of Acid Sulfate Soils on-site. 
Clause 6.1A – Earthworks The Proposed Development will consider any earthworks proposed 
across the Site in accordance with Clause 6.1A of the LCLEP2009. 
Additionally, as mentioned above, the Lane Cove Tunnel (M2 Motorway) 
intersects the Site, for which cons ultation with Transport for NSW 
(TfNSW) and Transurban will be undertaken as part of the Proposed 
Development to ascertain key considerations for developing the Site in 
close proximity to key infrastructure. 
 
[[page 31]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
30 
 
 
Figure 10 Maximum Building Height Applicable to the Subject Site and Surrounding Area under Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 (Source: NSW 
Legislation, 2020) 
 

[[page 32]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
31 
 
 
Figure 11 Maximum Floor Space Ratio Applicable to the Subject Site and Surrounding Area under Lane Cove Local Environmental Plan 2009 (Source: NSW 
Legislation, 2020) 

[[page 33]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
32 
 
5.16 DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING INSTRUMENTS  
 
No Draft EPIs apply to the Subject Site.  
 
5.17 LANE COVE DEVELOPMENT CONTROL PLAN 2009 
 
The LCDCP2009 was formally adopted by Council on 19 October 2009 and came into regulatory 
effect as of 22 February 2010. The LCDCP2009 is to be read and applied in conjunct ion with 
the LCLEP2009, for which, if there is an inconsistency between the two (2), the LEP would 
prevail over the DCP.   
  
The aims and objectives of the LCDCP2009 are as follows:   
  
▪ Provide detailed planning provisions supplementing the Lane Cove LEP 2009.   
▪ Support the locality’s sustainability in environmental, social and economic terms.   
▪ Conserve, protect and enhance the environmental and built heritage of Lane Cove.   
▪ Contribute to effective management of biodiversity.   
▪ To protect the quality of water catchments, encourage the use of water sensitive urban 
design and promote the adoption of whole of water cycle management principles.   
▪ Minimise any impacts of transition to higher residential and employment density zones.   
▪ Minimise any impacts of the redevelopment of uses not conforming to the zone they 
are in, by having regard to the scale and character of the surrounding neighbourhood.   
▪ Balance individual and communit y interests to preserve and, where appropriate, 
improve the existing character and amenity of the municipality.   
▪ Enhance the visual quality and functionality of the public and private domain 
interrelationship.   
▪ Achieve an overall character for neighbourhoods that enhance s their sense of identity 
and place.   
▪ Provide a context for the economic vitality of centres.   
▪ To promote use of public transport, walking and cycling as the main forms of access, 
particularly within commercial centres.   
▪ Regulate the visual impact of all development within foreshore areas.   
▪ Further the goal of equal access for all residents and visitors.   
▪ Enhance opportunities for cultural experiences throughout the natural and built 
environment by promoting public art.   
  
Given the Site is located within the Lane Cove LGA, the Proposed Development will  consider 
the LCDCP2009, which contains controls for i ndustrial development. Controls relevant to the 
Subject Site and Proposed Development are outlined within Table 4 below, which will be 
further assessed as part of the Proposal for consistency and completeness, despite DCP’s not 
applying to SSD in accordance with Clause 11 of SEPP (SRD) 2011.  
 
Table 4: Lane Cove Development Control Plan 2009 (LCDCP2009) – Controls  
LCDCP2009 
Clause  
Control 
Part B – General Comments 
B.2 Public 
Domain  
2.1 General  
 
Objectives: 
a) To provide public space that contributes to the identity and 
enjoyment of an area. 
b) To provide street furniture, landscaping works, water features, 
utilities, etc that contribute to the community’s enjoyment of the 
public domain but does not impede pedestrian movement and safety 
nor visual quality. 
[[page 34]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
33 
 
c) To provide venues for public entertainment and expression of 
community identity. 
d) To provide areas for public art that contributes to the cultural life and 
enjoyment of the centre and allows for community self-expression. 
e) To provide pedestrian surfaces that are safe for all users, clearly 
demarcated and constructed from materials that provide consistency 
and continuity of streetscape. 
 
Provisions:  
a) All design should be in accordance with the relevant Public Domain 
Strategies that may be in place for precincts within the LGA and 
requirements of Australian Standards. 
b) Provide seating in public spaces that is not allocated to a specific use 
(e.g. a café) for people to ‘hang out’, take refuge and rest. 
c) Position seating or seating areas at the edge of footpaths where 
through movement is not blocked. 
d) Do not obscure pedestrian eye -level sight lines wit h landscaping or 
other street improvements. 
e) Keep public areas free from clutter and unclear level changes, having 
particular regard for accessibility. 
f) Maintain a high quality of lighting for security and amenity. 
g) Provide formal and informal spaces for public entertainment including 
multi -functional street furniture, e.g. a flat bench may become an 
informal plinth for performance artists. 
h) Provide at least one space within major and local centre s that is large 
enough to hold an open -air performance, small public gathering or 
market. 
i) Provide public notice boards and kiosks in locations where people will 
be gathering. 
j) Integrate artworks into the design of public spaces. Consider 
artworks that serve a dual role, e.g. a s play equipment for children, 
informal seating or a marker for a meeting place. 
k) Consult with community groups in the design of artworks in public 
spaces. 
l) Except where negotiated with the Council, provide all footpath paving 
along property frontages in acc ordance with Council’s specifications 
including requirements for disabled. The extent, nature and type of 
paving materials includes tactile surfaces in appropriate locations to 
assist the visually impaired. 
m) Include water features in public spaces, building  entrances, foyers, 
facades and rooftops. 
n) Provide roof top gardens where practicable and permissible in 
commercial buildings and residential flat buildings. 
o) Plant trees where appropriate for shade, shelter and fauna and use 
native species and planting meth ods which minimise potable water 
consumption. 
p) Where possible, make provision for bicycle parking spaces. 
B.6 
Environmenta
l Management 
6.1 Sunlight to Public Spaces 
 
Objectives:  
a) To create public spaces with high amenity that encourages visitors to 
linger. 
b) To ensure that there is adequate sun access to publicly accessible 
spaces during winter at times of the day when the space is likely to 
have its highest use by visitors and residents. 
[[page 35]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
34 
 
c) To provide sufficient sunlight access for the growth of mature 
landscaping. 
 
Provisions:  
a) New development must allow for a minimum of 2 hours of solar 
access to at least 50% of new and existing public open areas or 
plazas between the hours of 11am and 2pm on 21st June. 
6.3 Energy and Water Efficiency for Buildings  
 
Objectives:  
a) Consider a balance of economic, environmental, cultural and social 
elements to enhance the quality of life in Lane Cove. 
 
Provisions:  
a) Incorporate passive solar design techniques to optimise heat storage 
within the building in winter and heat transfer in summer. 
Part E – Industrial Development  
E.5 Building 
Setbacks 
Objectives:  
1. To minimise the impact of development and buildings on the 
surrounding area. 
2. To create a pleasant environment within and external to the site 
through adequate landscaping. 
3. To provide landscape to the street. 
 
Provisions:  
a) Setbacks are to comply with the following table: 
 
 
* Zero side and rear setbacks may be permitted where deep 
soil/landscaping provi sions are met elsewhere on the site, BCA fire 
regulations are met, and merit issues are deemed acceptable in relation 
to adjacent properties. 
 
b) Landscaping strips are to be free from overhangs; hard elements 
such as paths, ramps, substations; fire hydrant b oosters (where 
possible); signs and advertising structure (including pole signs). 
Landscaping strips may be used in calculation of landscaped area. 
c) All front setbacks are to be landscaped to provide a high quality 
street presence. Front setback areas must not be used for 
storage or display of goods or excessive signage, 
loading/unloading or large areas of car parking. 
d) Underground parking is to be situated underneath the building 
footprint and hard surfaces. The building setback is inclusive of 
the required landscaping strip as stipulated in the Setback Table.  
e) Corner Sites: New development on sites that have a corner 
frontage is to provide an 8 metre front setback to the main 

[[page 36]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
35 
 
street/road and a minimum 4 metre setback to the secondary 
road/street. 
E.8 Parking 
and Vehicular 
Access 
Objectives:  
1. To ensure sufficient car parking is provided on -site to satisfy the 
likely peak parking demands of the development as per the RTA 
requirements.  
2. To reduce potential conflict with street traffic and pedestrians.  
3. To provide disabled parking where appropriate in accordance with 
the RTA’s requirements.  
4. Create attractive landscaped car parking throughout the 
development.  
5. To provide sufficient secure bicycle storage facilities. 
 
Provisions:  
a) Parking is to be integrated into the site planning and must be visually 
mitigated by minimum 3m landscape strip along the frontage and 
other high quality landscaping. 
b) Separation is to be provided between service areas (i.e. loading and 
unloading areas) and  parking. Service areas to be located and 
designed to facilitate convenient and safe usage.  
c) Access/Driveways - Vehicular movements to and from the site should 
be designed to reduce potential conflict with street traffic and 
pedestrians.  
d) Driveway width in front of the building line must be minimised.  
e) Car parking areas are to be broken up by canopy trees between car 
parking bays to reduce their visual impact. Car parking areas are not 
to be exposed to the street and where they adjoin other uses they 
are to be screened with landscaping to reduce their impact.  
f) All vehicles should enter and leave the site in a forward direction.  
g) No tandem parking facilities will be accepted for new developments. 
h) Preferably, off -street parking is to be provided behind or at the side 
of buildings and away from street frontages.  
i) Visitor car parking is to be located close to the office component of 
the development.  
j) Loading docks should be positioned so they do not interfere with 
visitor and employee parking spaces and to ensur e delivery vehicles 
do not stand on any public road, footway, laneway or service road. 
k) Proposed parking areas, truck docks, driveways, vehicular ramps and 
turning areas are to be maintained clear of obstruction and used 
exclusively for purposes of car park ing, loading or unloading and 
vehicular access respectively. Under no circumstances are such areas 
or any portion thereof to be used for the storage of goods and waste 
materials. These areas are to be physically line marked and are to be 
maintained free of obstruction, for the sole use of delivery vehicles. 
l) Motorcycle parking spaces are to have an area of 1.2m x 3m. 
Part J – Landscaping  
J.1 
Landscaping 
1.6 How much landscaped area is required? 
 
[[page 37]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
36 
 
 
 
Part O – Stormwater Management 
O.9 Hydrology 
and 
Hydraulics 
9.1 Design Average Recurrence Intervals 
 
9.1.1 Determining Flowrates 
 
The following table indicates the required design capacities for various 
elements in a stormwater system. 
 
 
Part R – Traffic, Transport and Parking 
R.2 Parking 2.2 Car Parking Rates 
 
Provisions:  
a) Developments should comply with on -site car parking rates in Table 
1;  
b) Deviation from the car parking rates in Table 1 will only be considered 
in special circumstances mentioned previously; 
c) Each residential dwelling with one or more bedrooms must be 
provided with a minimum of 1 allocated car parking space;  
d) Small car spaces, with minimum dimensions of 2.3m x 5.0m (as 
detailed in AS2890.1) are not permitted in private car parks and must 
form no more than 10% of the overall parking provision in public car 
parks. 
 

[[page 38]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
37 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1 Review of Key Planning Controls 
 
A review of the key planning  controls applicable to the Subject Site are outlined in Table 5 
below.  
 
Table 5: LCLEP2009 and LCDCP2009 Compliance Table 
Control Requirement Proposed  
Minimum Lot 
Frontage (m) 
N/A 8 m 
Height (m) Maximum 18 m (LCLEP2009) 38 m 
GFA (m2) N/A 24,689 m2 
FSR Maximum 1.5:1 (LCLEP2009) 1.4:1 
Minimum Building 
Setbacks (m) - 
Front 
Minimum Building Setback: 8.0 m. 
Landscaping Strip (which will form part 
of the building setback): 3.0 m. 
Building Setback: 8 m 
 
Landscape Strip:   3 m 
minimum 
Minimum Building 
Setbacks (m) – Side 
and Rear (adjoining 
industrial zone) 
Minimum Building Setback: Zero* 
Landscaping Strip (which will form part 
of the building setback): Zero* 
 
Note: * Zero side and rear setbacks 
may be permitted where deep 
soil/landscaping provisions are met 
elsewhere on the site, BCA fire 
regulations are met, and merit issues 
are deemed acceptable in relation to 
adjacent properties. 
Side Building Setback: 
10.98 m 
  
Side Minimum Landscape 
Setback: 0 m 
 
Minimum Building 
Setbacks (m) – Side 
and Rear (adjoining 
non industrial uses) 
Minimum Building Setback: 4.0 m. 
Landscaping Strip (which will form part 
of the building setback): 2.0 m. 
Rear Building Setbacks: 
19.9 m, 30.9 m, 26.6 m. 
 
Rear Landscape Setback: 
20.4 m maximum 
  
Side Minimum Building 
Setback: 41.4 m 
 
Side Minimum Landscape 
Setback: 18.5m  
  
Landscaping ▪ 20% of the Site is to include 
landscaping (i.e. deep soil 
landscaping); and 
3,507 m2 

[[page 39]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
38 
 
▪ Additional 10% of the Site is to 
comprise planting on 
structures or landscaped areas. 
Car Parking Industry or warehouse or distribution 
centre: 
 
▪ One (1) space per 60 m 2 of 
ancillary office area; plus 
▪ One (1) space per 77 m 2 of 
light industrial area; plus 
▪ One (1) space  per 300 m 2 of 
warehouse area; plus 
▪ One (1) disabled space per 50 
car spaces (minimum one (1) 
disabled space). 
50 spaces 
 
5.18 LANE COVE DEVELOPMENT CONTRIBUTIONS PLANS  
 
Lane Cove Council has adopted the Lane Cove Section 94 Contribution Plan (Section 7.11 as 
per the EP&A Act amendments). The Section 7.11 Contribution Plans would be applicable to 
any future proposed development made under Part 4 of the EP&A Act. Future dev elopment 
would require utilisation of the formula applied to Commercial, Retail and Industrial 
developments, which includes:   
  
$C = T/F x A  
  
Note:   
▪ C = Contribution per square metre of new commercial / retail floor space.  
▪ T = The actual cost of providing improvements for new development.  
▪ A = Administrative costs.  
▪ F = The project increase in commercial / retail floor space to the Year 2005.   
 
*Note: Contributions would require to be confirmed with Lane Cove Council prior to future 
development being undertaken. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 40]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
39 
 
PART F ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT  
 
A screening analysis of the environmental issues applicable to the Proposal is presented in 
Sections 6.1-6.13 below in sequential order of importance and relevance to the Proposal . 
This risk-based analysis has been used to identify the key environmental is sues for further 
assessment and assist the preparation of the SEARs with respect to the Proposed Development. 
 
The analysis is based on preliminary environmental assessment of the Site only. The EIS for 
the Proposal will fully address these items and other key environmental issues relevant to the 
Proposal. 
 
6.1 VISUAL AMENITY / URBAN DESIGN 
 
The built form would be designed to incorporate architectural elements that articulate the 
facades and provide a sufficient level of visual amenity within the public domain. Consideration 
would be given towards both the closely located R2 Low Density Residential zone opposing the 
Site on the northern interface of Mowbray Road West, for which increased landscaping 
provisions will be considered along this portion of the Site, as well as improved architectural 
treatments where deemed appropriate.  
 
Potential visual impacts as a result of the Proposed Development would be assessed via means 
of a Landscape and Visual Impact Asses sment, which would include an assessment of the 
proposed layout and design in accordance with the following principles and best -practice 
approaches identified within the following documents (but not limited to):  
 
▪ Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact  Assessment (GLVIA) – Third Edition 
(LI/IEMA, 2013); and 
▪ The Landscape Institute Advice Note 01 (2011) – Photography and Photomontage in 
Landscape and Visual Assessment.  
 
6.2 NOISE 
 
The Site is considered to be sufficiently separated from any noise sensitive receivers, including 
the identified Low Density Residential receivers identified on the northern side of Mowbray 
Road West. Notwithstanding, the Proposal would consider both construction and operational 
acoustic impacts (noise and vibration) having regard to the NSW EPA Industrial Noise Criteria, 
including the Noise Policy for Industry (NPI) document, the Interim Construction Noise 
Guideline (ICNG), as well as relevant controls articulated within the LCDCP2009.  
 
Potential noise impacts generated during the construction phase of the Proposed Development 
would be localised through construction traffic and construction equipment, for which a 
Construction Noise and Vibration Management Plan (CNVMP) would be prepa red and 
implemented for the Site where required, which would satisfactorily address any potential noise 
and vibration impacts anticipated during the construction phase of the Proposal.  
 
Operational noise would be attributed to proposed plant and equipment  including backup 
generators to be distributed throughout the proposed Data Centre. It is noted, that a qualitative 
and quantitative Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment would be undertaken by a suitably 
qualified Acoustic Engineer to confirm the Proposed Development does not exceed the relevant 
acoustic emissions criteria for operational noise with respect to both the amenity and 
intrusiveness criteria. Where potential impacts are identified, suitable acoustic attenuation and 
mitigation measures would be recommended and implemented across the Site where required.  
 
 
 
 
[[page 41]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
40 
 
6.3 AIR QUALITY 
 
Given the nature of the Proposed Development being for a Data Centre, air quality impacts 
would be considered accordingly, with particular consideration given towards air quality impacts 
from the use of proposed generators across the Site. It is noted, tha t the generators are for 
standby emergency backup power only and would be used only when required; thereby, the 
potential air quality impacts associated with the operational phase would be considerably low. 
Notwithstanding, potential air quality impacts will be detailed within the EIS.  
 
During demolition and construction, air quality would be managed through appropriate dust 
mitigation measures.  
 
Accordingly, an Air Quality Impact Assessment would be prepared by a suitably qualified expert 
to accompany the EIS. 
 
6.4 HAZARDS AND RISKS 
 
As only diesel fuel is to be stored on -site, the provisions under SEPP 33 do not apply. 
Notwithstanding, a Preliminary Risk Screening will be undertaken in accordance with the 
relevant SEPP 33 thresholds to establish the storing of Dangerous Goods on -site. Lithium 
batteries are also proposed to be utilised throughout the proposed Data Centre; however, 
appropriate storage protocols would be implemented to provide a safe and efficient operation.    
  
It is noted, that ongoing consultation will be undertaken w ith the NSW DPIE (Hazards Team), 
NSW EPA and FRNSW to ensure all potential impacts with regard to diesel fuel storage and 
associated potentially hazardous materials, i.e. lithium batteries has been accounted for. 
Accordingly, the Proposed Development would  be supported by a Fire Engineering Letter of 
Support which considers fire safety across the Site and any relevant Performance Solutions 
required to be considered prior to the issue of the relevant Construction Certificate.   
  
The requirement for an Environmental Protection Licence (EPL) will be considered following the 
preparation of the finalised design and ensuing Preliminary Risk Screening has been undertaken 
for the Proposal. 
 
6.5 TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT 
 
Suitable provision is made to accommodate and service the Proposed Development in relation 
to traffic and transport, including appropriate consideration of access from Mowbray Road 
West, which provides enhanced connectivity to the wider regional road network including the 
closely linked Epping Road and the M2 Motorway. Additionally, suitable parking provisions 
(Council) and swept paths have been considered across the Site, which would be further  
analysed within the ensuing Traffic Impact Assessment (TIA) to be prepared as part of the SSD 
Application. It should be noted, that despite a relatively large -scale built form platform, the 
Proposal entails a low volume of traffic generation requiring ingress and egress to the Site.  
 
Notwithstanding, a qualitative and quantitative TIA would be prepared by a suita bly qualified 
Traffic Engineer, which would consider the potential traffic related impacts as a result of the 
Proposal on the surrounding road network; access and design; car parking; and trip generation 
(including relevant swept path analysis). 
 
6.6 SOIL AND WATER 
 
During the construction phase of the Proposal, an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) 
would be implemented to protect the downstream drainage system and associated receiving 
waters from any potential sediment-laden runoff.  
 
[[page 42]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
41 
 
Earthworks would be designed to minimise the extent of cut and fill and allow the balance of 
soil to be re-used on-site. Topsoil would be stockpiled for re-use within landscaped areas where 
possible. Minor regrading would be required to facilitate the buil ding pad for construction 
purposes.  
 
With regard to water quantity across the Site, the Proposed Development will include provisions 
for On-site Stormwater Detention (OSD) to capture all site stormwater runoff and manage 
overland flow across the Subject Site. The Proposed Development will include a satisfactory 
stormwater management cyc le which includes a Water Sensitive Urban Design (WSUD) 
strategy which achieves Council’s stormwater and pollution reduction targets across the Site. 
It is anticipated that ongoing consultation with the NSW DPIE, Lane Cove Council, NSW EPA 
and TfNSW will occur throughout the SSD Application.  
 
Rainwater harvesting would also be applied across the Site (where considered practical), which 
will incorporate re-use in irrigation methods and recycled potable water components, i.e. toilet 
flushing.  
 
6.7 INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES 
 
All essential infrastructure services would be augmented accordingly for the Proposed 
Development, including potable water, wastewater, electricity, gas and telecommunications. 
With respect to the Lane Cove Tunnel, ongoing engagement wi ll be undertaken with TfNSW 
and TransUrban to ensure there are negligible impacts anticipated to occur on this 
infrastructure asset as a result of the Proposed Development.  
 
Preliminary geotechnical and desktop investigations undertaken by ARUP reveal tha t the Lane 
Cove Tunnel is located approximately 40 -50 m below the proposed Data Centre foundations, 
for which the majority of material between the proposed foundations and the Lane Cove Tunnel 
comprise densely compacted rock.  
 
Comprehensive investigations , comprising geotechnical, noise and vibration are to be 
undertaken as part of the subject SSD Application, which would confirm any potential impacts 
(if any) that would likely be incurred as a result of the Proposed Development. Any 
recommendations provid ed would be implemented within the relevant Construction and 
Environmental Management Plans to be incorporated into the Proposal upon Development 
Consent being obtained. These recommendations would be issued to both TfNSW and 
TransUrban to gain their support.   
 
6.8 SITE LAYOUT AND DESIGN 
 
The Site Layout and built form design (including landscaping) responds to the Site constraints, 
thus providing a highly functional development which enhances the visual amenity of the Site, 
by revitalising a dilapidated industrial landform into a modernised building that will not detract 
from the amenity of nearby residential receivers. Suitable provision is made for service vehicles 
within the Site, which would be supported by detailed swept paths within the ensuing EIS and 
TIA.  
 
Additionally, the configu ration of the Proposal takes into consideration the desired street 
connectivity and circulation required throughout the Site that can accommodate a development 
for the purposes of a Data Centre.  
 
6.9 BUSHFIRE 
 
The Subject Site is identified as Bushfire Pr one Land (Vegetation Buffer), for which the 
Proposed Development will include provisions for the preparation of a Bushfire Impact 
Assessment in accordance with potential bushfire impacts, including recommendations 
[[page 43]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
42 
 
pertaining to defendable space and Asset P rotection Zones (APZs), as well as ensuring 
compliance with the Planning for Bushfire Protection 2019 (PBP 2019) document.  
 
6.10 SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS 
 
The Proposal would positively impact on the social and economic conditions of the Lane Cove 
LGA and th e wider Sydney Metropolitan Region, which are envisaged for employment -
generation and economic growth and prosperity. Construction jobs are expected to be in the 
order of approximately 300, whilst operational jobs would be expected to exceed approximately 
50 future staff (which includes maintenance contractors).  
 
6.11 BIODIVERSITY 
 
Potential impacts to native vegetation across the Site would be appropriately assessed within 
the Biodiversity Development Assessment Report (BDAR), which will be prepared in accordance 
with respect to the Biodiversity Assessment Methodology (BAM) . For any clearing required, it 
is expected that the species would be offset in accordance with the provisions of the Biodiversity 
Offsets Scheme (BOS).  
 
6.12 ABORIGINAL CULTURAL HERITAGE AND NON-ABORIGINAL HERITAGE 
 
Earthworks proposed will be required to consider the  potential impacts to Aboriginal Cultural 
Heritage across the Site, for which the Proposal w ill be supported by an Aboriginal Cultural 
Heritage Assessment Report (ACHAR).  
 
The recommendations required to be implemented as a result of the findings of the A CHAR 
would be carried across in relation to the subject Proposal for the purposes of a Data Centre 
as part of the overarching management and mitigation measures within the EIS to be prepared.  
 
6.13 WASTE 
 
Demolition, construction and operational waste would be managed in accordance with a site -
specific Waste Management Plan to be prepared with respect to the Proposal. This would 
include provisions for recyclables and suitable offsite disposal.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 44]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
43 
 
PART G CONCLUSION 
 
The Proposed Development would equate to a CIV of more than $50 Million, thus the Proposed 
Development is defined as SSD pursuant to Schedule 1, Part 25 of the SRD SEPP.  
 
The Site is situated within the Lane Cove  LGA and is complimented by surrounding 
developments of similar contextual importance; therefore, the Site is considered highly suitable 
for the Proposed Development, given the industrial-related uses (data storage) proposed. 
 
The Proposed Development is considered to  align with the strategic objectives of the 
LCLEP2009 and continues to support employment-generating opportunities within the wider 
Sydney Metropolitan Region. Furthermore, the Site is located within close proximity to housing 
and key infrastructure. In this respect, the Proposed Development would provide for economic 
growth and prosperity for the Lane Cove LGA.  
 
Additionally, as noted throughout this Report, the Proposed Development would be carried out 
in an environmentally and ecologically sustainable manner and would further implement 
suitable mitigation measures to ensure that the amenity and function of surrounding land uses 
would not be compromised.  
 
It is requested that NSW DPIE issue formal SEARs for the preparation of an EIS for the Proposed 
Development as SSD. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 45]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
Preliminary Architectural Plans  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[[page 46]]
Request for Secretary’s Environmental Assessment Requirements  
Proposed Data Centre  
706 Mowbray Road West, Lane Cove North (Lot 10 DP 1179953) 
 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 2 
Preliminary Cost Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 